Earth2 How-to:

Overview
Earth2’s Address:

Earth Version 2 Pty Ltd
Level 22, 307 Queen Street,

Brisbane, QLD, Australia, 4000

Earth 2® UK Limited
First floor, 140 Brompton Road,

London, United Kingdom, SW31HY




Earth 2, quite literally, holds a world of opportunities, allowing players the chance to be the
captain of their own exploratory journey. You can interact with players, familiarize yourself
with the landscape and interact with all the activities within. However, just like any explorer
will know, boundless opportunities can also lead to confusion for the uninitiated. Take a
wrong turn, and you might take a while figuring your way back.

This guide page was created with that purpose in mind -- to help new explorers chart the
unexplored and familiarize themselves with the many aspects of Earth 2. Regardless of
whether you are trying to set up your account, trying to understand the marketplace, or are
looking for more details on the land purchase process, the information you can find in this
guide will help you get a better understanding of Earth 2 and its mechanics.

As we prepare to say goodbye to November, our 1 year anniversary month, we have one last
birthday gift for our Earth 2 community. To thank our early adopters for their immeasurable
support this year, the Earth 2 Company has committed to the distribution of Essence to all
existing Tier 1 land owners.

If you need more assistance or are unable to find what you are looking for, you can also
check out the FAQ or reach out to our support team here.

This means:

All player owned properties existing around the time of our announcement will be classified
as Tier 1 land. These are "original" Tier 1 properties and differ slightly from player-
upgraded Tier 1 properties.

All original Tier 1 property owners will have a badge revealing the total number of Essence
Earth 2 has promised them (Essence Awaiting Claim).
​The Essence promised will be tied to those original Tier 1 properties.

Simultaneously, all new land tiles on Earth 2 will be classified as Tier 2 and the price will
reset to E$0.10/tile.

In addition to the commitment of Essence, all Tier 1 tiles will have some exclusive and
exciting new bonuses.

[Learn More]



Create your Account
To sign in to Earth 2, you will need to create an Earth 2 Account. Once logged in, you will
gain access to features like buying and selling tiles, managing your properties, and trading
with other players. If you want to know more about Earth 2, you can, of course, still visit the
Earth 2 website without an account.

To create a new Earth 2 Account, visit the Main Page.

In the top right, click Login or Sign up.

In the bottom of the menu, click "Don't have an account? Sign up".
Choose an email address and a secure password. Be sure to not use a password that has
previously been set for another website!



Customize Your Account
Now that you have created your new Earth 2 Account, you can customize it on the profile
settings page. Before customizing your Account, ensure that you are logged in. If you are
not, from the Main Page click Log in or Sign up at the top right of your screen.

To customize your account, first open the drop-down user menu at the top right of your
screen by clicking on your name/avatar.

Click Settings, next to the gear icon.




You can also add a phone number by clicking on the Pen Icon next to the Mobile Phone
Number field.
​To change or reset your password, click Reset Password. You will receive an email with
 further assistance and instructions on how to recover, reset or change your current
 password.

Change your flag and default map view by scrolling down to the bottom of the settings page,
clicking on the Flag field to select a new flag and then choose your preferred default map
view by selecting Map or Satellite




Manage 2FA
We highly recommend enabling Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) to improve your account's
security. To set up 2FA, you will need a mobile phone with an active internet connection and
an authentication app. If you cannot or do not want to set up 2FA for your Earth 2 Account,
please ensure that you have registered with a secure and unique password. We also highly
recommend that you do not share or use the same credentials on other websites.

To enable 2FA:

Visit your profile's Settings page. To do that, first open the drop-down user menu at the top
right of your screen by clicking on your name/avatar, then click Settings.

Click Manage 2FA.

Select Enable Two-Factor Authentication, a guide will follow you during the activation
process.

Click Next, a QR code will show up.

With your supported device, open the authentication app and add a new profile; scan the
QR code generated for your Earth 2 Account.

Type into the Token Field the security code generated by the authentication app; then, click
Next.

Your account is now protected by 2FA Security.

We highly recommend that you save the Backup Tokens needed to restore your 2FA. In the
event that your device is damaged or lost, these tokens will be required for logging in. To
view and save the Backup Tokens:

Visit your profile's Settings page. To do that, first open the drop-down user menu at the top
right of your screen by clicking on your name/avatar, then click Settings.

Click Manage 2FA.
​On the Backup Token section, click Show Codes.

A new message will show up; then, click Generate Tokens.

The website will generate ten backup tokens; be sure to save the tokens in a safe place that
is external from your device and do not share them with anyone.

You can disable 2FA at any time:

Visit your profile's Settings page. To do that, first open the drop-down user menu at the top
right of your screen by clicking on your name/avatar, then click Settings.

Click Manage 2FA.

Click Disable Two-Factor Authentication.

Tick the Yes, I am sure check-box and confirm with Disable.




If you cannot enable, disable or update the 2FA preferences following the steps above,
please contact us providing detailed information about the issue you are experiencing.



Account Balance and Withdrawals
Your Earth 2 account displays two different balances:

Account Balance (white): The balance of your in game E$ credits which can be used to
purchase or trade within the game. These are credits you are able to withdraw from the
game (1 E$ = $1 USD in value).

Net Worth (yellow): Displays the total net worth of virtual land you hold inside Earth 2 by
summing up the estimated net worth for each of your properties. This Net Worth is an
indication only and is based around latest user to user trading prices or the new land value
for the tiles on each property.




To withdraw money from your Account Balance, please visit your profile Settings Page and
scroll down until you find the Withdraw Funds button, then click on it.

Further instructions will appear, followed by information about how to formally submit a
withdrawal request.




Note that withdrawals are manually processed at the moment and might take some time.
We are actively working to optimize and add new ways to process withdrawal requests
faster.
​If you need further assistance, please contact Support A member of our Support Team will
 follow up on your request as soon as possible.



Search for Land
To search for land, click Buy Land at the top of the screen.

On the map, click and drag the map to move the view and use the mouse wheel to zoom in
or out.

The map offers different view modes:




You can also visit the Marketplace to browse properties that are for sale and owned by
other players. To know more about the Marketplace and how it works, see What is the
Marketplace.

Tip: When viewing the map on PC, you can render a 3D perspective by keeping the left Shift
key pressed and using the arrow keys!


Buy New Land
To buy unowned land, click Buy Land at the top of the screen. Note, that every country has
its own New Land Price which may vary over time.
To start the selection of a block region of tiles, first click a tile in the grid, then click a second
tile to mark the two opposite corners of your selection.

Click Clear Selection to clear your selection.

Click Details to view detailed information about the selected region.

The Total price is calculated by multiplying the number of tiles selected by the current price
per tile for the country.

After selecting Details, a new section will appear next to the Map view at the bottom of the
page. To buy the selected land, click on Buy Now. The total price will be the 'Buy Now Price'
shown above the button.

After selecting Buy Now a new window will appear. Here you can review your details and
choose your preferred payment method.
​Pay with Account Balance: Money will be subtracted from your Account Balance (white) in
 E$. You can add more funds to your Account Balance by visiting your profile settings page.

Pay with Credit Card: You can also pay directly by Credit Card. Note that we are actively
working to add more payment methods. In case you are experiencing issues when
purchasing with your Credit Card, please contact your service provider asking for more
information.

You can obtain a Promo Code from other users to credit yourself back with a % of E$ in the
new land purchase.

A promotional code claims 5% of the purchase back in credits and the code owner also
receives 5% of the value as a reward in credits. Be sure to click Apply after inserting the
Promotional Code.

In a future release, should you own T1 property, you will have access to a stronger and
customizable promotional code which claims 7.5% of the purchase back and grants the
owner 7.5% of the purchase as a reward.

Be sure to click Apply after inserting the Promotional Code.

Note, that:

You cannot use your own Promotional Code.

The Promotion Code only applies to New Land purchases, not user to user purchases.




After purchasing land you will receive an email notification with the details.

Additionally, you can check the Transactions page for a complete and detailed list of your
account's operations. Click the top right of your screen, select your username/avatar and
then click Transactions. The property will also appear on your profile page after a short
period of time.




You can later review and edit your properties on your Profile and Insights pages.

Click in the top right of your screen, select your username/avatar and then Profile or
Insights.




Note that Properties can be one of two Tiers, Tier 1 and Tier 2. Tier 2 Properties can be
purchased from Earth 2 and can also be traded in the Marketplace. Currently Tier 1
Properties can only be acquired by purchasing them from a Tier 1 Property owner in the
marketplace.
​EPL
 The Earth2 Property Locator (EPL) is a unique global identifier Player's can upgrade on
 their property. It provides a similar function as a URL to a website yet for now, in it's initial
release, is universal and more simplified. The EPL allows users to overwrite the standard
cryptic identifier with a more user friendly and discoverable word or phrase. These words
or phrases are unique and therefore limited and being universal will have limited
availability. Moving forward, EPLs will be an integral part of the Earth 2 platform, be key in
connectivity and will even have their own dedicated premium Earth 1 portal.




Upgrading an EPL on your property will make it memorizable, searchable and ultimately
another layer of discoverability in addition to it's real world geographical location. EPLs will
not only serve purpose throughout Phase 2 but also in Phase 3, enabling users to teleport
directly to your property location by inputting the reserved EPL.

The Earth 2 Teleportation System will be part of a future update and will be explained in a
separate section at a later date.


Introduction to EPLs

Every Earth 2 property holds a unique EPL generated using numbers and letters which
correspond with the property Deed.




Any player can upgrade their Property's EPL to a name of their choice using the following
guidelines:

The Property has to be a Tier 1 Property. Tier 2 Properties' EPL cannot be upgraded.

You will need E$ or Essence to upgrade an EPL at present. There are two ways to pay for the
EPL:

with E$: Standard pricing will be E$9.95 per EPL for the original claim of ownership but as a
special limited promotion will be discounted to E$4.95 and will include at least 24 months
before any type of renewal is required.

with Essence: For a duration of 60 days after the official launch of EPLs or until user to user
trading of Essence becomes available, whichever happens first, the price will be set to 100
Essence per property for the first two properties a user buys. After this time period or after
the second EPL has been purchased with Essence the pricing will update to 400 Essence if it
is not already determined by the market price for Essence (see next point).

Note: Once user to user trade with Essence becomes possible, this price will be determined
by the free market. From that point in time the exchange rate between the EPL price in E$
​and the amount of Essence it will cost will be determined in real-time by the current
 exchange rate.

At some point in the future, EPLs will require an annual renewal fee. Why are we charging?
Well, this not only assists with ongoing Earth 2 general supply costs, after all we need to
create sustainable longevity on Earth 2, but will also incentivize Players to actively utilize
their EPL and avoid mass hoarding.

Importantly, there are future plans which will allow users to sell their EPLs on an open
market in addition to being able to sell the EPL combined with their property.

The size of the property and class of the tiles will affect what name you're able to reserve
and within those constraints the name must have a minimum length of 4-7 characters and a
maximum of 36 characters.

Please, be respectful when choosing your EPLs as they are subject to an ongoing blacklist of
blocked words.

When choosing a name for an EPL, all reasonable community standards in terms of respect
for other people and youth protection guidelines apply.

In this regard, if we can reasonably assume malicious intent in the selection of the EPL, we
reserve the right to sanction against the account in addition to a withdrawal of the EPL.

If you think a player is not respecting the rules listed above or if you have any other
question, please do not hesitate to contact our Support Team



EPL's 48 hour Protection Period

We acknowledge the time and effort put into Earth 2 by the creators of community projects
and are therefore introducing some rules to safeguard the names of established Earth 2
Projects, Guilds and Megacities being claimed as Earth 2 Property Locators (EPLs).

The rules are as follows:

The names of established Earth 2 Projects, Guilds and Megacities that existed before this
announcement will have 48 hours to claim their respective EPLs after the countdown
completes at 1pm September 8, 2021

Should another Earth 2 player claim your Project, Guild or Megacity name as an EPL within
the first 48 hours you may lodge a dispute and the case will be reviewed and action will be
taken accordingly. Evidence must be provided from you to demonstrate your claim to the
name.

Only 1 dispute per Project, Guild or Megacity's Owner can be lodged.

To lodge a dispute, please visit Support Team
​We understand that some players were concerned about their established names being
 intentionally claimed by others and have introduced these rules to protect those members
 of our community.

For additional support, questions or for more information, please do not hesitate to contact
our Community Management Team via Discord at any time.



How to set up your EPL

In order to upgrade an EPL, follow these steps:

Log in into your Earth 2 account.

Open the Profile page.

Click to open the Property Card of the property you want to upgrade the EPL for.

Scroll down to the Section below the property's photo and the Upgrade EPL button can be
seen.




Note that if you do not own enough E$ for the transaction, you can buy E$ in the Settings
Menu of your account or earn them by trading properties or resources like Jewels.

Note: In order to prevent auto-reserving, bots and keep network traffic minimal, only one
EPL can be bought every 2 minutes.


Managing EPLs

If successful, the EPL will show up in this section and you will receive a unique URL to your
property which will be E2.me/<YourEPL>.




Renaming the EPL after the first upgrade will require E$1.00 or 80 Essence, and your
previous EPL will become available to other Players.
​After choosing a new EPL name, select a payment option; a notification message will appear
 with additional information about the process. You can always cancel the process by
 selecting Cancel.
You can also Copy and Share the EPL's link by clicking one of the buttons on the right. This
How-To guide can be also found by clicking the little grey question mark icon.




Renaming Limitations

We aware that, in order to prevent fraudulent activity while selling properties holding
custom EPL's, you are not able to alter an EPL while a Bid is in place.




To Rename an EPL, be sure no Bids are active for the selected property.



Trade Owned Land
To sell one of your properties visit your Profile page, choose the property you want to sell
and select Edit/Sell.

Here you can modify the Description, check the Location and set the TOTAL Price. Be aware
that properties with the Advertise in Marketplace option activated can be viewed and
bought by players for the TOTAL Price.

To save the changes click Save; select Cancel if you would like to abort the changes.

Note that you can modify property's details only once every 10 minutes; be careful when
saving!




If you would like to purchase an already owned property you can either search the desired
location by navigating on the Grid Map or visit the Marketplace.

To know more about the Marketplace, please read the next guide: How The Marketplace
Works.

In the Map view, after finding and selecting the property you would like to purchase, click
on Details.




If the property is not for sale you can always submit a bid (or offer).
​To submit a bid, select Bid in the Details window. Insert

a bid amount and then click Place Bid to confirm.

Be sure your Account Balance has enough funds to submit the bid. You can always add more
funds to your Account Balance by visiting your profile settings.

Bids must be at least 30% of the current owner's purchase price (unless the user has
disabled 30% minimum bidding)

When submitting a bid, Earth 2 will hold the bid amount until it gets accepted or rejected.
You can also cancel a bid at any time.

You can review the bids you have made on your Transactions page.

Promotional Codes do not work when submitting or accepting bids.




To cancel a bid, visit the property (or click the bid action in the Transactions page), scroll
down to the details section and click Cancel

The money will be added back to your Account Balance.




If the property is for sale, you will read the price set by the land owner.
You can buy the property for the Buy Now Price by selecting Buy Now.

You can also consider submitting a bid by selecting Bid.

The money will be added back to your Account Balance.




If the property is for sale, you will read the price set by the land owner.

You can buy the property for the Buy Now Price by selecting Buy Now.

You can also consider submitting a bid by selecting Bid.- The land owner will receive a
notification with your offer.

The land owner has the option to send a counter offer (or counter bid) and you will receive
a notification with the details.

Earth 2 will receive 5% of the profit from the seller upon completion of the transaction
(improvement fee).
​After purchasing a property you will receive an email notification with the details.

Additionally, you can check the Transactions page for a complete and detailed list about your
account's operations. Click in the top right of your screen, select your username/avatar and
then Transactions


Bidding Hub
Navigating to the Bidding Hub

To access the Bidding Hub, open the drop-down user menu at the top right of your screen
by clicking on your name/avatar. Then, click Bidding Hub.




Managing Bids Placed by You

To manage the bids you placed, click on Bids Placed by Me at the top of the Bidding Hub
page.




You will see a list of all properties you placed bids on, along with a multitude of various
filtering, sorting and searching options.




Filtering the List of Bids Placed by You

To make your list more manageable, you can use the Filter Menu at the top to apply a range
of various filters to it.




Filtering by Status

If you want to filter your bids by status, you can click the Filter by Status field to the left.




By default, this filter is set to All Properties, which does not filter out any properties in the
list.

Changing this to My Bids counter offered will cause the list to only show properties which
have an active counter offer made by the owner of the property.

Choosing My Bids declined will show you the list of properties your bids were declined on.
​Filtering by Data
If you want to apply more granular filters, you can click the FILTER PROPERTIES button to
the right.




This will open the Filter properties popup window, which contains additional filtering
options.




My Bids Placed Between

Property Size Between

Value Filters

These filters allow you to set a price range. If applied, the list will only show properties with
bids within that range.

Price

Market Value

My Bid Value

To apply those filters, click the checkboxes of the filters you want to apply. This should
mark the checkboxes.




Then, enter the range of values you want to filter for.




Lastly, click the SET FILTER button at the bottom of the popup window.




You know the filters were applied successfully when the dot on the FILTER PROPERTIES
button is green.




To remove specific or all data filters, click FILTER PROPERTIES to open the Filter properties
popup again. Then uncheck any marked checkboxes of filters.
​Clicking SET FILTER now will remove all unchecked filters.

Once no data filters are applied any longer, the dot on the FILTER PROPERTIES button is no
longer green.




Filtering by Search

Lastly, you can filter the list via searching for a specific Location, EPL, words used in the
property description or the property owner's username.




First, click on the Search box and type in a string of characters to search for.




Then, mark the checkboxes for the type of information you are searching for.




The list should now show only matching results.

You can remove the Search filter by either unchecking all information type checkboxes
and/or by deleting the characters in the Search bar.

Sorting the List of Bids Placed by You

By clicking the Sort by menu to the left, you can sort your list of bids in various ways.




Description

Location

Size

Owner

Date - Time of your Offer

Market Value

Price

Bid

Your Offer
​By clicking the Arrow button, you can flip the sorting direction.




Refreshing the List of Bids Placed by You

If you want to force an update of the list, you can refresh it without reloading the page by
clicking the Refresh button on the right side of the screen.




Managing Bids Placed by You

Each property entry summarizes the relevant information around the bid you placed.




Time of your Offer

Market Value

Price

Top Bid

Your Offer

Description

Location

Size

Owner

By clicking the BIDDING HISTORY button, you can expand the entry to also show the
extensive bidding history of that property.




By clicking the PROPERTY INFO button, you can inspect the property in more detail.




Updating a Bid
You can update your bid via the UPDATE BID button.
​Clicking the button will show a text field, into which you can enter the amount you want to
 bid.




After entering a valid amount and clicking OK, you will be asked to confirm this action.




Clicking YES

Cancelling a Bid

You can cancel a bid by clicking the CANCEL BID button in the bottom right corner.




This will open a popover asking you to confirm this action.




Clicking CANCEL will close the popover without canceling your bid.

Clicking YES will cancel your bid. The funds used for the bid will be returned to your wallet.

Cancelling Multiple Bids

You can cancel multiple bids in bulk by using the Select menu at the top of the screen.




Clicking the Select All checkbox will select all properties currently shown.

Alternatively, properties can also be selected by clicking the Select checkbox inside their
card.




Once properties are selected, the Deselect and CANCEL SELECTED BIDS buttons unlock.




Clicking Deselect will remove the selection on all properties again.

Clicking CANCEL SELECTED BIDS will open a popover asking for confirmation.




Clicking CANCEL will close the popover without canceling your bids.
​Clicking YES will cancel all selected bids. The funds used for the bids will be returned to
 your wallet.

Managing Bids Received from Others

To manage bids received from other players, click on Bids Received on the Bidding Hub
page.




You will see a list of all properties you received bids for, along with a multitude of various
filtering, sorting and searching options.




Filtering the List of Bids Received
To make your list more manageable, you can use the Filter Menu at the top to apply a range
of various filters to it.




Filtering by Status


If you want to filter your bids by status, you can click the Filter by Status field to the left.




By default, this filter is set to All Bids, which does not filter out any properties in the list.

Changing this to All active Bids will cause the list to only show properties which have an
active bid on them.

Choosing All inactive Bids will show you the list of properties that have only inactive bids,
e.g. bids you have declined or bids that were canceled.

Filtering by Data

If you want to apply more granular filters, you can click the FILTER PROPERTIES button to
the right.




This will open the Filter properties popup window, which contains additional filtering
options.




Only your properties for sale
​Property Size Between

Bid Value Filters

These filters allow you to set a minimum bid value. If applied, the list will only show
properties with bids of equal or higher value.

Bids above (% of My Price)

Bids above (% of Market Value)

My Bids Placed Between

To apply those filters, click the checkboxes of the filters you want to apply. This should
mark the checkboxes.




Then, enter the range of values you want to filter for.




Lastly, click the SET FILTER button at the bottom of the popup window.




You know the filters were applied successfully when the dot on the FILTER PROPERTIES
button is green.




To remove specific or all data filters, click FILTER PROPERTIES to open the Filter properties
popup again. Then uncheck any marked checkboxes of filters you want to unapply.




Clicking SET FILTER now will unapply all unchecked filters.
Once no data filters are applied any longer, the dot on the FILTER PROPERTIES button is no
longer green.




Filtering by Search


Lastly, you can filter the list via searching for a specific Location, EPL, or words used in the
property description.
​First, click on the Search box and type in a string of characters to search for.




Then, mark the checkboxes for the type of information you are searching for.




The list should now show only matching results.

You can unapply the Search filter by either unchecking all information type checkboxes
and/or by deleting the characters in the Search bar

Sorting the List of Bids Received

By clicking the Sort by menu to the left, you can sort your list of bids in various ways.




Description

Location

Size

Bidder

Bid Date

Market Value

Your Price

Bid Value

By clicking the Arrow button, you can flip the sorting direction.




Refreshing the List of Bids Received

If you want to force an update of the list, you can refresh it without reloading the page by
clicking the Refresh button on the right side of the screen.




Managing Bids Received

Each property entry summarizes the relevant information around the bids for it.
​Time of the Bid

Market Value

Price

Top Bid

Description
Location

Size

By clicking the BIDDING HISTORY button, you can expand the entry to also show the
extensive bidding history of that property.




By clicking the PROPERTY INFO button, you can inspect the property in more detail.




Accepting a Bid

You can accept a bid via the ACCEPT button.




After clicking ACCEPT, you will be asked to confirm this action.




Clicking YES will accept the bid, which sells your property to the bidder. Please note, that a
5% improvement fee will be charged for this transaction. This fee is calculated from the
profit margin of your sale and does NOT include the original amount you paid for your land.

Making a Counter Offer

You can make a counter offer via the MAKE COUNTER OFFER button.




Clicking the MAKE COUNTER OFFER button will open the Sell Property popup.




In this popup, you can now set a new price for the property by changing the Per Tile, Total
or Profit values.
​Clicking RESET TO ORIGINAL VALUES will reset the values to what they were when the
 popup was opened.

Clicking WITHDRAW will withdraw the property from the Marketplace, which will remove
its price.

Clicking CANCEL will close the popup with no changes being applied.

Clicking will update the price for the property. You will be asked to confirm this action.




Clicking YES will send the counter offer.

Clicking CANCEL will close the popover without a counter offer being sent.

Declining a Bid

You can decline a bid via the DECLINE button.




This will open a popover, which will ask you for confirmation.




Clicking DECLINE will decline the bid in question.

Clicking DECLINE, while the checkbox below is checked, will also decline all bids of a lower
value.
Clicking CANCEL will close the popover without declining any bids.


Tier 1 properties and Bonus Essence
As we prepare to say goodbye to November, our 1 year anniversary month, we have one last
birthday gift for our Earth 2 community. To thank our early adopters for their immeasurable
support this year, the Earth 2 Company has committed to the distribution of Essence to all
existing Tier 1 land owners.

This means:

All player owned properties existing around the time of our announcement will be classified
as Tier 1 land. These are "original" Tier 1 properties and differ slightly from player-
upgraded Tier 1 properties.

All original Tier 1 property owners will have a badge revealing the total number of Essence
Earth 2 has promised them (Essence Awaiting Claim).
​The Essence promised will be tied to those original Tier 1 properties.

Simultaneously, all new land tiles on Earth 2 will be classified as Tier 2 and the price will
reset to E$0.10/tile.

In addition to the commitment of Essence, all Tier 1 tiles will have some exclusive and
exciting new bonuses.

Learn More


Jewels
Player owned properties have a random chance of spawning Jewels. Once claimed, Jewels
can be collected, traded and crafted (coming soon) and can be slotted into a property. Once
slotted they assist the property in improving overall performance and production in areas
such as E-ther, Resources and more to come.

Claiming your Jewels

To claim Jewels, visit your profile's Resources page. To do that, first open the drop-down
user menu at the top right of your screen by clicking on your name/avatar, then click
Resources.




You are now in the Storage Section where, if you have any unclaimed Jewels, a pop-up will
appear prompting you to claim them.

Note that Jewels can only spawn on Tier 1 Properties.

To claim the Jewels, click Claim All and the Jewels will be added to your inventory.




To view detailed information about any of the Jewels, hover your mouse over and a pop-up
window will appear.




Jewels left unclaimed will expire after seven days from when they spawned.




Crafting
The Jewel Crafting feature allows you to shatter, craft and improve Jewels. Shattering or
Crafting Jewels will generate Shards as an additional resource.
​Shards are needed to improve Jewels to higher clarity versions, strengthening the effect
 they have when slotted into your properties' Mentars.

Navigating to the Jewel Crafting Page

To access the Crafting menu visit your profile's Resources page. To do that, first open the
drop-down user menu at the top right of your screen by clicking on your name/avatar, then
click Resources.




You are now in the Inventory screen; in the navigation bar at the top, select Storage, then
Jewels. To access the crafting section, select Crafting: A new window will show up with your
inventory and a crafting menu.

From here you have the ability to craft through Combinations that allow the Shattering,
Improvement and Crafting of Jewels.




Crafting Jewels

Here you can Craft, Improve or Shatter Jewels. You will find some of the Combinations
marked as Unknown Combination. To find more combinations, keep crafting, try new
combinations, and most importantly... have fun!

Entering and Removing Jewels

To insert a Jewel into one of the five crafting slots, first left click on the desired jewel from
your inventory, then select one of the crafting slots by left clicking it.




The Jewel stack is now placed in a crafting slot and a Spread Over pop-over will appear.




By changing its number, you will be able to spread Jewel stacks across multiple slots. The
pop-over message will close when clicking anywhere else on the screen.

To remove a Jewel stack from a crafting slot, click the desired stack and then click the Jewel
Inventory.

Entering and Removing Shards
​Add Shards by typing the number required, using the arrows or tick Allow Bulk Crafting to
 create the maximum number of Jewels possible with the Shards available in the Inventory.

A simple click will add/remove 1 Shard.

Shift-click will add/remove 10 Shards.

Ctrl-click will add/remove 100 Shards.

Crafting Results




After adding Jewels or Shards into multiple crafting slots, you will notice the result field
changing; it now displays the expected result of the crafting action.

What result a craft yields is dependent on the reagents used and based on Combinations.
You can inspect the list of available Combinations through the Combination List.

Viewing the Combination List




To open the Combination List, click the Combination button in the top right corner of the
Jewel Inventory.

Clicking the Combination button again will close it.

Getting Shards
To obtain Shards, you need to shatter Jewels. This is done through the Shatter Combination.

Jewels will be shattered if only one reagent field for Jewels is filled. The reagent field for
Shards needs to be empty (set to 0).




The Shards gained is based on the Jewel that will be shattered and is previewed in the result
field at the bottom.


To shatter a Jewel, click the Shatter button in the center of the Crafting tab. If you want to
shatter all Jewels inside the reagent fields, you can check the Allow Bulk Shattering

The resulting Shards are now placed in the result field and can be picked up by clicking on
it.
​Crafting Tier 1 Jewels




You can create your own Jewels out of Shards via the Tier 1 Jewel Combination, which takes
24 Shards. For this Combination to work, the reagent fields for Jewels need to be empty.

After entering 24 Shards or more, the result field will show a choice of all available Tier 1
Jewels.




Through editing the number field by the checkbox, you can choose how many Jewels will be
crafted.

If the Shards entered are enough to craft multiple Tier 1 Jewels, you can bulk craft them by
checking the Allow Bulk Crafting checkbox.




Now, choose the type of Jewel you wish to craft.




To craft the chosen Tier 1 Jewels, click the Craft button above. The resulting Jewel(s) is now
placed in the result field and ready to be claimed by clicking on it.




Improving Jewels




You can improve the quality and effect of Jewels through the Improve Combination, which
consumes Shards and Essence.

Improve Combinations only require one crafting slot to be filled, and enough Shards to
upgrade the Jewel to the next quality level to be entered in their respective field. The
amount of Shards needed depends on the type, quality level and tier of the Jewel.




If enough Shards are entered, a Jewel can be upgraded over multiple quality levels. The total
amount of Shards needed to upgrade a Jewel to Luminous quality is the same regardless.

If enough Shards are entered to upgrade more than one Jewel to at least the next quality
level, the Allow Bulk Improvement checkbox will appear; if selected, the entire stack will be
improved.

To improve the Jewel, click the Improve button.
​The resulting Jewel(s) is now placed in the result field and ready to be claimed by clicking
 on it.
Unlocking Unknown Combinations




Some Combinations in the Combination list may still be unknown.

You can attempt to craft a new, yet unknown Jewel by trying out different Jewel
combinations.


If the Combination is unknown, a Trial option will appear, allowing you to attempt a new
Combination.




A Trial will use one Jewel from each reagent field and attempt to create a new Jewel from
them.

If the Jewels used match the reagents needed for an unknown Combination in the
Combination List, its result will be crafted and placed in the result field. The Combination
will also be unlocked and listed in the Combination List.




If the Combination is not successful, the Jewels will be shattered and the resulting Shards
will be placed in the Results field.

The game will remember any unsuccessful combinations you tried and preview them as
shattering the Jewels.




Mentar
Mentars are buildings that are essential for the gameplay in Earth 2. They detect E-ther that
evaporates from the land and turn it into Essence.

Once you complete the process of creating Mentars, there will always be one on each of your
properties, including future properties bought after the Mentar creation process was
undertaken.

Mentars enable Jewel slotting on properties; the bigger the property on which a Mentar
exists, the more open slots for Jewels it has. Slotting Jewels on your property improves its
functionality through the Jewels' modifier effects.
​How to create your first Mentar

The process of creating Mentars is as follows:

Step 1: When you visit your Profile page for the first time, a text box will appear:

You are able to build Mentars on all of your properties for free. Mentars are important for
facilitating Essence generation, and - in the future - Resource production. The construction
of Mentars takes 14 days from the initial day of construction to complete. It also requires
you to visit your Portfolio on 7 separate days within the 14 day construction period, but is
otherwise free of charge. Would you like to start building your Mentar/s now?"

(yes) (later) (don't ask again)

Step 2: You will then be asked to select your Time Zone.

"Please enter and confirm your time zone. This will be used as a reference to determine the
daily progress on creating your Mentars."

(okay)

Step 3: Mentars are now being constructed on your properties. Visiting your Profile page on
7 separate days will produce a Mentar for each of your properties for free after 14 days.
We measure the seven visits in calendar days based on the Time Zone selected in Step 2.
Each time you visit your Profile page on a new day, a message will appear reminding you of
the progress of your Mentar creation process.




This sequence of messages will stop once the creation process for Mentars is completed.

Note: The Mentar is currently a metaphysical construct that works in the background. In
future updates you will be able to see Mentars physically placed on your properties.

The Mentars' Quest


After completing the Mentar construction process, newly bought properties will
automatically have a Mentar placed on it, regardless of if they were purchased directly from
Earth 2, or previously owned by another user.

Alternatively, you can skip the 14 day construction process by opting to buy a Mentar from
your Profile page. To do this, select a property on your profile and click the green button
Buy Mentar. Note that buying a Mentar on a specific property will only affect that property
and you will need to repeat the process for each of the properties on which you would like a
Mentar placed.
​Mentars existing on your Properties will be visible on the map for all to see.




You will also notice that with a property holding a Mentar, the Buy Mentar button is
removed from the property card and replaced with an i (info) button, indicating the
property has a Mentar.




Functionalities

Mentars are fundamental for Essence generation on properties, and are required to detect
E-ther from your properties.

Each tile has a daily chance of evaporating 1 E-ther.




Detected E-ther will vanish 48 hours after evaporating on your property, so it is important
to regularly visit your Profile page to claim your E-ther. More information can be found in
the section How to claim E-ther

Mentars on larger properties usually have a lower efficiency in detecting the evaporating E-
ther, but their effectiveness can be boosted by filling the Mentars' open Jewel slots. More
information can be found in the section Introduction to Slotting.

If you do not have Mentars placed on your properties, whether through the 14 day
construction or buying process, you will not be able to yield any resources other than
Jewels. The option to create or buy Mentars is always available, simply visit your Profile


Slotting
Introduction to Slotting

From the Slotting tab in the Resources, Storage page, you will be able to slot Jewels from
your Jewel Inventory into your properties' Mentars.

Once Jewels are slotted into a property's Mentar, they are able to improve that property's
effectiveness through their modifier effects. Regardless of their modifier specs, each Jewel
will improve the E-ther detection rate on your property.

Note that only properties holding a Mentar will show up in the Slotting tab.




To access the Slotting tab:
​Visit your profile's Resources page. To do that, first open the drop-down user menu at the
 top right of your screen by clicking on your name/avatar, then click Resources.

Then open the Storage Section.

Select Jewels, and then Slotting from the right window menu.




In the Slotting section you will find a list of property overviews which show the size in tiles,
the E-ther detection rate in %, and the Jewels Slot Bar. It also includes a filtering system for
your properties (sort by: number of tiles or alphabetical order) and a search bar.




The Jewel Slot Bar

The Jewel Slot Bar is where you can slot Jewels into a property by dragging and dropping
them into the open slots. Slotting Jewels inside a Property's Mentar will boost the E-ther
detection rate, up to 100%.

Jewels can be unslotted in the same way: simply drag and drop them back to the Jewel
Inventory.

Slotted Jewels are not consumable and only apply their effects on the property for as long as
they remain slotted.

Some Jewel colors interfere with each other and themselves when slotted in the same Jewel
Slot Bar, which may weaken or negate some of their effects.

A total of 15 slots are displayed, though there is currently a maximum of 12 open slots. We
have reserved a number of slots for special game mechanics that will be applied in future
releases.

The number of open slots is based on the size of the property; the larger the property (in
terms of the number of tiles), the more slots are available (up to the maximum amount).

The E-ther detection rate is displayed on top of the Resource Production Display in
percentage form, along with the E-ther icon.

Hover over the display for more information on what Jewel modifiers constitute the
percentage.
​E-ther
 How to claim E-ther

When you log in to Earth 2 page all detected E-ther from the past 48 hours will be offered
for you to claim: The E-ther Icon in the top bar is highlighted. By clicking on it, a popup
appears and informs you about the amount of claimable Essence. By clicking Claim, the
Essence is now claimed.




Each tile has a daily chance of evaporating 1 E-ther.

Mentars on larger properties usually have a lower efficiency in detecting the evaporating E-
ther, but their effectiveness can be boosted by filling the Mentars' open Jewel slots.

Detected E-ther will vanish 48 hours after evaporating on your property, so it is important
to regularly visit Earth 2 to claim your E-ther.

Once you claim your detected E-ther, you will be asked to transform it into Essence.




When you click the Transform button, your E-ther will be turned into Essence. Not all E-ther
is the same, so the same amount of E-ther can yield a rather wide range of Essence as a
result. The different E-ther to Essence conversion rates for Tier 1 and Tier 2 also affect
Essence generation. More information can be found under Tier 1 Properties and Essence
Distribution Commitment.



Holo-building Editor

What is a Blueprint?

A Blueprint is a design or technical drawing created by a player which has been saved and
includes one or more virtual HoloBuildings. By owning a specific blueprint, you can create,
edit, position and place it on your property.

If you are the creator or if you own the full rights to a created blueprint, you will be able to
sell your blueprint to other players who will in turn have the right to place that blueprint
design on their properties or use it inside Earth 2.

What is a HoloBuilding?

A HoloBuilding is the resulting product of a Blueprint which has been activated, constructed
then placed on a Property. Amongst other things, HoloBuildings serve aesthetical and
practical purpose inside Earth 2 - feel free to learn more here.
​What is a Property?

A Property is a parcel of land owned by a player on Earth 2. The Editor allows you to search
for Properties you own when placing or building new Blueprint.

What is Space?

Space is the volume of a HoloBuilding which is stored inside the Editor. When placing new
HoloBuildings on your Tiles, Space is generated and becomes part of every HoloBuilding. It
can be utilized for various purposes such as storing resources, additional Essence,
convertible Space volume toward Phase 3 structures and more.

If a player retrospectively decides to remove or reduce the volume of a HoloBuilding after it
is placed on a property, part of the volumetric will be credited to their Space virtual wallet
and will become available for subsequent HoloBuildings or other purposes yet to be
disclosed.

Opening the Editor

To open the Editor and start building your first HoloBuilding visit your profile's
HoloBuilding Editor page. To do that, first open the drop-down user menu at the top right of
your screen by clicking on your name/avatar, then click HoloBuilding Editor. This will open
the editor view.




You can choose the preferred view by selecting one of the buttons in the top left corner of
the editor. Currently, you can choose between Map View and Satellite View. The 3D (3 axes)
button activates and deactivates 3D navigation.

Additionally, a Map Search bar will allow you to search for Locations, and Properties (Tiles
you own).




You can move the map around by navigating while holding down the left mouse button.

Searching For Locations

With the editor open, select Create my first Blueprint from the menu to the right. If you
already have one or more Blueprints, click the button at the bottom of the right menu
"Create new Blueprint".




A window will appear asking for the Property you would like to build the Blueprint.
​Typing a location into the text box, the system will prompt you for all the matching results
 from which you can then select.
Selecting a Property by clicking on Select Property, the Editor will teleport you to it and an
outlined grid will appear defining limits and dimensions of the selected Property.

Please note that you cannot create new Buildings (and so, place Blueprints) on Properties
listed for sale!

The Red Border indicates a building area restriction for your property beyond which you
are not allowed to build. This to prevent secondary owners' buildings to be built attached to
yours.

We are considering future plans for Properties in Megacities to not have that limitation and
for roads to be placed between Tiles.




If you would like to build a Blueprint without taking a Property as a reference, you can
always select Continue Without: an open space of 7,5 km2 will be available for you to
express your creativity!

Navigating in the Editor

The editor is ready, and you will now be able to create your first HoloBuilding.

In the lower left-hand corner, you will find buttons to zoom in and out of the map. Please
note that you need to be zoomed in to grid level in order to use the editor. The Lock function
activates by default locking the current view but you can also unlock it by deactivating the
lock icon.




Additionally, while building with the 3D Navigation active, hold the right click mouse button
and move around to rotate the view (or hold Shift + arrow keys) and hold the left click
mouse button to travel around (or use arrow keys).

You can easily return to this guide by selecting the Help icon in the bottom right of the
editor. The two arrows pointing to the left and right, allow you to undo or redo previous
actions, if available from the current session.




Drawing Modes
​The Editor offers three main Drawing Modes: Add Blueprint, Draw Polygon and Draw
 Rectangle. During this document section we will first introduce the 2nd and 3rd Drawing
 Mode.




To draw any polygon shape:

Left click the 2nd button or press 1 from your keyboard.

Left click once on the map on a place where you want a corner of your building to be (do not
hold the mouse button). The editor will create what is called a vertex: a point that will stay
attached to your mouse cursor via a line. Click a second time to create another vertex.

Keep clicking to place more vertices with the intention of creating a shape to your liking. If
you have at least 3 vertices, you can close the polygon. To do so, left click on the last placed
vertex or the first one.

Note that if you draw an invalid polygon (a polygon that intersects itself) the process
cancels. To exit the drawing mode you can also press "esc" (escape) on your keyboard.

Additionally, you can draw a perfectly shaped rectangle by clicking the 3rd button or
pressing 2 from your keyboard. Left click once on the map to start drawing, then move the
mouse and you will see the rectangle being created under your mouse. Left click again to
finish the drawing when the shape is to your liking.
Editing Modes

Editing Modes are modes with which you can edit an existing polygon in a certain way.
There are three Editing Modes:

Polygon Selection (S key)

Polygon Editing (E key)

Polygon Scaling & Rotating (R key)

If a polygon is not selected (white colored), you cannot edit it in any way. In order to select
it, click on it. In order to return back to Selection Mode from any other mode, press the "S
key".

You can always deselect a blueprint by clicking into an empty space on the map or by
pressing Escape. This also works for cancelling drawing.
​When a polygon is selected, you can modify its Height and Elevation in the right menu and
 then Save or Discard.

You will be able to change the Blueprint's name at anytime from the Blueprint's information
right menu.

Height and Elevation entries are in meters, 2 decimal places are possible, so you're able to
define the height and elevation down to a centimeter.

Elevation will define the height the body will be elevated above the ground. This does not
mean you can create floating buildings, but you can stack blocks. This allows you to create
more complex buildings with parts not directly connected to the ground themselves like
this one:




You can move a polygon around by Left-clicking it, holding the mouse button and moving it
around. On release of the mouse button the blueprint will be placed at the current position
of the mouse. It usually snaps to grid which you can avoid by keeping the Shift key pressed
during the placement.

Selection Mode can be used to select multiple Polygons together. You can Shift + Click to
select/deselect features one by one, or you can Shift + Drag (left mouse button) to select
everything under the drawn selection rectangle.

Note that you can move selected features together, but you cannot edit them together.

You can Edit a polygon by pressing E on your keyboard.




If you are not satisfied with the general shape of your building, you can edit single vertices
in this mode. Just click on one vertex, hold the mouse button and move the vertex into the
right position. Then release the mouse button. Repeat as often as you like.

If you need more vertices in a certain area for a more complex shape, just click on one of the
yellow dots, and the neighboring lines will show new vertices.

You can select multiple vertices via Shift + Left click and drag them together; selected
vertices will appear red colored.

While dragging a Blueprint, the snap-to-grid option is active to better guide the user while
repositioning it. You can always disable this function by holding Shift.

In order to delete vertices, select those you want to delete and then click the Delete button,
the Del key or Backspace

You can Scale & Rotate a polygon by pressing R on your keyboard.
​To scale the blueprint you can click on one of the vertices and increase or decrease the
 building to your liking.

In order to rotate it, just click on the yellow rotation symbol (here left of the floorplan) and
rotate it around the center of the blueprint.
Pressing R key again will change the pivots for scaling and rotating between Center Pivot
and Opposite Vertex. You can change the Rotation mode as many times as needed always by
pressing R on your keyboard.

The rules for snapping to grid apply of course.

Editing Tools

First, let's select two or more HoloBuildings together by holding Shift and Left clicking one
by one.




The Editing Tools are now available, in order:


Unify (Ctrl + U)

Difference (Ctrl + D)

Intersect (Ctrl + I)

Match Borders (Ctrl + M)

Clone (Ctrl + C)

Delete (Del)

Unification, Difference and Intersection depend on the selection order! Whichever
operation is chosen from this range, it will be applied to 1st and 2nd selected features, the
result of that will be applied with 3rd selected feature, the result of that will be applied to
the 4th selected and so on...

The algorithm checks if the operation can be applied, if it cannot, it will stop. An example, if
HoloBuilding 1 & 2 can be intersected but HoloBuilding 2 & 3 cannot, the process will stop
at the 2nd HoloBuilding and will nor proceed any further.

Unification: will combine two or more selected and overlapping polygons into one.

Difference: The part of polygon 1 that does not overlap with polygon 2 remains. Shapes 2, 3,
4,... are used to cut into shape 1. Hint: placing a "shape 2" completely within "shape 1" and
​selecting both of them (order does not matter in this particular case) will create a hole in
 "shape 1".

Intersection: keeps only the overlapping area of 2 shapes.

Match Borders: is a smart way to change polygons so they perfectly fit together without
unifying them. Selection doesn't matter, it makes sure that shapes are nicely glued together
without overlapping. It does not remove shapes, it only edits them.

Cloning: copies the selected polygons and places the copy into the same place (which turns
everything red, since now the clone and the original overlap). You can easily drag the clone
to another place and do with it whatever you could do with the original.

Note that you can place Blueprints over different Blueprints. To do so, select Edit from an
existing Blueprint and then select the Add Blueprint icon. Once done, click Save.




Blueprint Information

On the right side you find a dark grey rectangle, containing some important information.
Right now it looks quite empty, but once you have created a few blueprints it will show
them as a list.

In the top you can find a section containing information about the Blueprint you are
currently working on. You can enter a name for the Blueprint here, check the number of
polygons used, Property (is previously selected), total vertices, the total volume, and the
amount of E-Dollars "E$" this volume would cost you to deploy.




Once you are satisfied with your Blueprint you can Save it at the bottom right with the save
button. Don't forget to give the Blueprint a unique name!

Saved Blueprints will appear in the list of Blueprints on the right side of the screen. In the
Search my Blueprints field you can enter the text to filter your Blueprints.

Note that only those Blueprints built on a previously defined Property will have the "Tiles
Icon" displayed under the name.




Clicking on an existing Blueprint will open its window menu reporting useful information
such as creation date, polygons, vertices, volume and more.


You will also find the choice to Edit the Blueprint, to Clone or to Delete it.
​Blueprint Errors

If a Blueprint shows a Red point in the list to the right, or polygons turn Red on the map
overview, that means one or more values require attention and you will be unable to
construct the building in the future in its current state. There are a couple of reasons for the
Red points:

Polygons intersect

Polygon bodies don't have a path to ground: they need to touch the ground themselves or
connect with other polygons that eventually touch the ground

Polygons exceed size or max number of vertices

Polygons reach across the border of the building area

All of these cases can be solved by either merging the polygons, scaling them or moving
them.

Adding Blueprints to a Property

If you want to place an already existing Blueprint on a Property, follow these steps:

Select Create New Blueprint at the bottom of the right menu.

Search for the desired Property.

Confirm by clicking Select Property.

The Editor is now ready and positioned in the selected Property. Click Add Blueprint or
press "0" from your keyboard.




A new window will appear asking you for the Blueprint name you would like to position in
the selected Property; the system will prompt you for all the matching results from which
you can then select.




Select the desired Blueprint, additional information will be displayed.




Blueprints already linked to a Location, can be linked to new Locations: Blueprints selected
during this process will not be overwritten or deleted.

Click Select Blueprint, the window will disappear and you will now be able to place the
Blueprint in the desired position. Once done, click Save Blueprint from the bottom right
menu. You can later delete Blueprints not anymore needed.
​Creating Your First Building

As defined at the beginning of this document, a Building is a Blueprint becoming "reality"!
Visible to other players, it can only be placed on your Properties.

Placing a Building will follow with a Construction Cost, information you can read after
selecting a Blueprint from the right menu.

To create your first, visible Building, select Create My First Building.




A window will appear prompting you to select a Property. Selecting a Property is necessary
and essential since our Buildings need to be placed on our Tiles.




Typing a location into the text box, the system will prompt you for all the matching results

from which you can then select. Choose the preferred location; the editor will teleport you
to the map position while displaying the size of the property as well as other useful
information.




Placing Your First Building

Now that the editor is ready, we can place an already existing Blueprint on the grid, to do so
click Add Blueprint or press "0" from your keyboard.




A new window will appear asking you for the Blueprint name you would like to position in
the selected Property; the system will prompt you for all the matching results from which
you can then select.

Note that only blueprints that are validated (and so, with no invalid geometry) are allowed
to be placed.




Select the desired Blueprint, additional information will be displayed.




You can place more than one Blueprint by repeating the previously explained passages as
many times as you want. The Construction Cost to the right will be the total of all
Construction Costs for those HoloBuildings currently placed on the Property.
​When done, select Place Building. A new window will appear: My Building Overview. Here
 you can check all the details before confirming and so transforming the placed Blueprints
 into Buildings. Note that placing Buildings will not delete any of the Blueprints you own.




The Final Construction Cost will be substracted from you Earth 2Account Balance. You
always will be able to edit or delete your Buildings from the right menu of the Editor.




Space: Editing or Deleting Buildings

You can always update or delete your Buildings. To do so, visit the My Buildings tab and
select the Building you would like to edit.

When reducing the volume of the already-placed Building, updating it will refund you by the
90% of the initial purchased Space which will be always available for future Buildings you
are going to place.
Instead, when increasing a Building's size, the system will first check for Space left to be
used.




We aware that in order to prevent scams attempts you cannot edit or delete buildings from
Properties listed for sale.

The Grid

As you may have already noticed, the Grid shows small squares as well as bigger ones, these
last outlined by bold segments.




The small squares indicate the 1x1 meter meanwhile, the bigger ones, define the actual tiles
you are already familiar with and so, those displayed in the Grid View when exiting the
HoloBuilding Editor.


Because of the curvature of the Earth, some tiles may be bigger or smaller than 10x10
meters. However, this detail does not effect what you will visually see on the map after
placing your HoloBuildings and so, after crating your Buildings.

The HoloBuildings' Volume may vary as well due to the Earth’s curvature but once more,
this does not interfere with the final result displayed on the map.
​Introduction
 There are some properties on Earth 2 that generate very limited amounts - or even none - of
 a specific type of Resource, even though they may be found in the corresponding physical
 location on Earth. There are a number of reasons why this may be, and there is now the
 opportunity to not only help improve Resource generation, but also corroborate your Claim
 with the wider Community and participate in the first instance of Essence staking on Earth
                                                                                                  2

All you need to do is submit a Claim via the Claims Manager. When submitting your Claim,
you should ensure that you supply conclusive, publicly available evidence to support your
Claim (e.g. evaluations of geological research, images from Google Maps etc.).

If your Claim is successfully approved by Earth 2, your property and all properties in the
affected area will reflect the real world presence of the Resource claimed. This will take
effect with the next update following confirmation of a successful Claim.

How To Use The Claims Manager

Login to your Earth 2 account and select the Profile dropdown menu on the upper right side
of the screen. Select ‘Resource Claims’ to go to the Claims Manager.




This will immediately take you to an overview of all ongoing Claims in the community.




The Claims Manager is separated into two sections: a section for ‘All Claims’ and a section
for ‘Your Claims’. The ‘All Claims’ section shows an overview of all active Claims in the Earth
2 Community. The ‘Your Claims’ section shows an overview of all your Claims and is also
where you will need to go to submit new Claims.

More information on the two sections of the Claims Manager is described in detail below:

All Claims

By opening the Claims Manager, the ‘All Claims’ section is displayed by default. Here, you are
able to quickly access insights for active Claims in the Earth 2 Community and sort them by
the Player submitting the Claim, the location of the Claim or the specific Resource type,
etc. You can also use this section to find Claims of interest to you and “boost” another
Player’s Claim by staking your Essence in that Claim.

As there may be a large number of active Claims across many different locations, for all the
different Resource types, there is a filter and sort option above the overview table which
allows you to find and view the Claims most relevant to you.

Filter Options
​The following filter options can be used to find specific Claims of interest.

Date




Claims made on a specific date can be found by selecting or inserting the date into the input
field. The table refreshes automatically to show you the results immediately after a date is
selected/inserted.

To remove this filter option, simply remove the text from the input field.

Player Name




Claims submitted by a specific Player can be found by typing in their Earth 2 username into
the text input field. All existing Claims submitted by Players whose usernames contain the
entered denomination will be displayed automatically.

To remove this filter option, simply remove the text from the text input field.

Resource Type




Claims pertaining to a specific Resource can be found using this Resource Type filter. Simply
select the desired Resource from the Resource dropdown bar. The dropdown bar contains
all Resources that have been released to date on Earth 2.

To remove this filter option, simply select the ‘None’ option from the dropdown bar.

Country




Claims within a specific country can be viewed by selecting the desired country from the
country dropdown bar.

To remove this filter option, simply select the 'None' option from the dropdown bar.

Land Title




Claims on a specific Property can be found by searching for the Land Title. Type in the
desired word or phrase to activate this filter. All Claims on Properties whose Land Titles
contains the entered word or phrase will be displayed.

To remove this filter option, simply remove the text from the text input field.
​Sorting Options

The sorting feature can be activated by clicking on the header of the desired column you
wish to sort. The first click will sort the column by descending order, a second click will sort
by ascending order, and a third click will reset the sorting order.

Sorting options are available for all Claim columns: “Date“, “Player”, “Player Backing“,
“Resource Type“, “Country”, and “Land Title”.

Insights

The Insights icon can be found on the right side of each Claim.




Select this button on any Claim to view the details of the Claim, including Resource type, full
description, Claim status, and more.




Here you can also find the option to ‘Report Claim’ on the bottom right corner, for Claims
you believe contain inappropriate content (e.g. the describing text).

If you agree with the Claim and you want to increase the visibility on the Claims Heatmap,
you can back it by staking Essence. N.B. Each Claim has differing thresholds for stakeable
Essence, depending on the size of its Property, thus affecting the maximum amount of
Essence you can stake. The location of the ‘Stake Essence’ button for staking Essence is
shown below:




When the ‘Stake Essence’ button is selected, a pop-up will appear where you will be able to
select how much Essence you want to stake in the Claim. If the maximum amount of Essence
for the Claim is reached, the Claim cannot be backed further and its visibility on the
Heatmap is increased to its full potential. The maximum amount of stakeable Essence per
Claim depends on the Property size. Larger Properties require more Essence to be fully
backed.

If a Claim passes final validation by Earth 2, all Players who contributed to backing the
Claim will receive a reward based on the total amount of Essence staked. Regardless of the
Property size, the more Essence you stake for a particular Claim, the greater your reward
will be.

Your Claims

If you have a Property that is not generating the correct amount and/or type of Resource
according to its real world attributes (e.g. your Property is generating little or no Wood
​even though it is located in a forest) you can submit a Claim for the Property from the 'Your
 Claims' tab.

As you have not yet submitted any Claims, this section will display a ‘No Claims’ text when
you first visit it.




Once you have Claims submitted for different Resource Types or Properties, this is where
you will be able to find and review all of your Claims. Your Claims will then be displayed as
below:




The Claims Overview table contains the following information columns:

Status

A Claim will be ascribed one of 5 different status types. The current status of the Claim is
always displayed in this column.

Open: Submitted Claims are automatically ascribed as ‘Open’. This status indicates that the
Earth 2 team is aware of this Claim but has not yet started evaluating it. ‘Open’ status Claims
can be backed by other Players and can also be removed by Claim owners.

Under Investigation: Claims that are currently being reviewed by Earth 2 are ascribed as
‘Under Investigation’. Other Players may still back these Claims but owners of ‘Under
Investigation’ status Claims can no longer cancel their Claims.

Approved: Congratulations! This status means your Claim has been approved by the Earth 2
team and you have successfully helped improve Resource generation in your Property’s
location on Earth 2. The claimed Resource will experience increased generation in this area
with the update immediately following the successful Claim.

Rejected: Unfortunately this status means your Claim was rejected. This may be due to a
number of reasons, including but not limited to insufficient documentation to support your
Claim, your Claim was reported too many times, etc.

Removed: This status is ascribed to a Claim when the owner of the Claim removes it for the
purpose of changing it or deleting it completely.

Player Backing

This column displays a progress bar that represents how much Essence - of the maximum
stakeable Essence - other Players have staked towards backing your Claim.

Resource Type

This column displays the specific Resource type pertaining to the Claim.
​Country

This column displays the country in which the Property of the Claim is located.

Link to Property

Players can visit the specific Property by clicking on the button located in this column.

Delete

As the owner of a Claim, you are able to delete any Claim that is currently marked with the
status “Open”. Simply click on the trashcan icon in this column.

Create a Claim

To create a Claim, click the button 'Create a Claim'.

Begin by selecting the Resource (e.g. coal) you wish to claim in the dropdown menu directly
below the ‘Create a Claim’ button. You will only be able to create Claims for Resources that
have been released to date.




Next, select the desired Property for the Claim. Select the empty circle (left) next to the
Property to add it to your Claim. Note that you may only select one Property per Claim so
selecting another Property will deselect the previous Property selected. Use the pagination
at the bottom of the page to go through your portfolio of Properties.




Below the Properties table, you will find a section where you can upload evidence to
corroborate your Claim (documents or hyperlinks). You can also write a short summary
about your Claim here.




You may add up to three files per Claim (only .jpg, .jpeg, .png, and .pdf files will be accepted)
using the ‘Upload File’ fields. Clicking on a field will open your file explorer where you may
select a file from your device.

Please make sure your attached files are in the supported format, otherwise your Claim will
not be created successfully.




If you are unhappy with the selected file, click on the trashcan icon to remove it:
​You may also add up to three hyperlinks (e.g. websites) that support your Claim. Simply
 copy and paste the URL into the corresponding field.




Edit or remove a hyperlink by clicking on the pencil icon on the right of the hyperlink.




Finally, you have to write a short summary about your Claim in the right hand side textbox.
Please be aware that your description is publicly visible and cannot exceed 1000 characters.
You may cancel the process at any time by clicking on the button “Cancel”. Selecting this
option will delete all progress made on the Claim so far.

If all required form fields are filled, you may submit your Claim by clicking on the button
‘Submit Claim’ at the bottom of the page. After clicking on this button, you will see a Claim
summary, as well as some important information regarding your Claim.




The information displayed is:

Once you have reviewed your Claim summary, you may finalise your submission by
selecting the ‘Submit Claim (E$4.95)’ button. Upon successful submission of your Claim, the
Resource Claim Assurance Fee of E$4.95 will be collected from your account balance. This
fee is refunded in full, back to your account, when your Claim is approved by the Earth 2
team.

If you have followed the steps correctly, congratulations, you have created your first
Resource Validation Claim! This Claim is now listed in the overview table in both the ‘All
Claims’ and ‘Your Claims’ sections of your Claims Manager. The Earth 2 team will begin
investigating your Claim as soon as possible and you will receive a notification on the status
as your Claim progresses, or when other Players back it.

Changing or Editing a Claim

If you think that a Claim you have created is incorrect or incomplete, you will be able to
resubmit it.
To do this, you will need to go to ‘Your Claims’ and find the Claim you wish to change or edit.
Click on the trash can icon to delete the Claim and create a new Claim with the updated
information. When you delete your old Claim, the Resource Claim Assurance Fee that was
collected for that Claim will automatically be returned to your account balance.
​Remember that only ‘Open’ status Claims can be deleted by you. Claims that are already
 under investigation - or the investigation has already been completed - cannot be removed.

Rewards

The reward for a Player submitting a successful Resource Validation Claim is not only the
refunded Resource Claim Assurance Fee, but also the Resource generation of the claimed
Resource on their property.

Additionally, all Players who back a successfully validated Claim with Essence, including the
Player who created the Claim, will receive the Player Resource Validation Essence Bonus.

Currently the E2PRV Essence Bonus rate for Players is 1.5 times the amount of Essence they
staked. This 50% Essence reward is the updated rate and may be further reduced over time.

Any future reduction in the Essence Bonus rate will be publicly announced and will not
affect any Claims submitted before the announcement is made, even if those Claims are
validated after the new reward rate has been integrated.

Restrictions

Maximum number of Claims

There is a maximum limit of 1000 Open Claims per claiming Player at any one time. If this
limit is reached, Players will not be able to create another Claim until its status updates to
'Under Investigation'. Players will need to remove an existing Open Claim or wait until Earth
2 begins evaluation of a Claim, in order to create a new Claim.

Ownership

Players may only create a Claim for a Property they own.

Resource Claim Assurance Fee

The Player must pay a Resource Claim Assurance Fee when submitting a Claim. This fee is
E$4.95 and is refunded when a Claim is successfully approved by Earth 2. Resource Claim
Assurance Fees are not refunded when a Claim is rejected.
Once the player has more than 100 Claims open at the same time, the Resource Claim
Assurance Fee does not have to be spent for each additional Claim. As soon as less than 100
Claims are open at the same time, the fee will be charged again.

Claiming, Marketplace & Bidding Hub

Properties to which ongoing Claims are assigned cannot be offered for sale in the
Marketplace or the Bidding Hub. If Players wish to sell these properties, they must ensure
that the Claims on these Properties have been completed or are removed.
​Accordingly, no Claims may be created for Properties that are already listed for sale on the
 Marketplace or Bidding Hub. The listed Properties must be unlisted from the Marketplace
 or Bidding Hub if Players wish to create a Claim for those Properties.



Marketplace
The Marketplace is the place where players can trade their properties.

To access the Marketplace, click the Marketplace button in the Navigation Bar at the top of
your screen.




On this page, you can search for specific offers by using filters.

Market Value History will bring you to the Country Statistics page which displays additional
information about each country's value.

Note that we will be updating the website from time to time by reworking and adding new
features.




The page will show multiple results. All the properties for sale are submitted by the players
of Earth 2.

Tiles: Size of the property in tiles.

Tier: The tier of the property.

Class: Class number of the property.

Country: In which country the property is located.

Essence Promised: The amount of promised Essence attached to the property.

New Land Value: Value of a newly bought property of the same size in that country.

Name/Advertised Price: The property's name and it's price set by the selling player.

% vs New Land Value: Price difference between New Land Value and Advertised Price.

Actions: View or buy the property listed in the Marketplace.




The View button will bring you to the property's detail page displaying useful information
about the land selected.
​The Buy button will bring you to the grid view where you will be able to review the location,
 size, shape and price before proceeding with the purchase.

You will be able to pay with Account Balance where money will be subtracted from your
Account Balance (white). You can add more funds to your Account Balance by visiting your
profile settings page. Alternatively, you can pay with a currently supported Credit Card.

Note that we are actively working to add more payment methods and so some services may
be unavailable from time to time. If you are experiencing any issues when purchasing with
your Credit Card, please contact your service provider to seek additional information. Earth
2 practices methods to reduce fraudulent transactions and unfortunately this at times
causes legitimate purchasers to experience issues when buying.

To know more about how to list your own properties in the Marketplace and bid or buy
Land, please visit the previous how to.



Bazaar

This is where you can buy and sell jewels and eventually other commodities with other
Citizens.

Introduction

To access the Bazaar:

First visit your profile's Resources page. To do that, first open the drop-down user menu at
the top right of your screen by clicking on your name/avatar, then click Resources.




Next, select Bazaar from the header menu section, next to Storage.




On the Jewels page of the Bazaar, you will see a list of Jewels that other Citizens have made
available for purchase.

Filtering System

The Jewels for sale can be filtered using the drop-down menus or sliders at the top of the
listings. You can filter the listings by Tier, Color, Selling To and Price. Additionally, a slide
bar is available to select only a price range, if desired.
​Filter by Tier describes what resource tier the Jewel belongs to. Clicking the filter will
 expand the filter list, in which you can select your desired Tier.

Filter by Color describes which raw materials a Jewel will affect. Clicking the filter will
expand the filter list, in which you can select your desired Color. You can choose between all
(all colors will be displayed) or a specific color (only one will be displayed).

Filter by Selling To describes the audiences the listings are available to. Clicking the filter
will expand the filter list, in which you can select your desired filter.

Filter by Price allows you to filter out listings that do not fall within your price range
between the sliders. Listings can also be sorted using the Sort By drop-down menu where
Lowest Price First or Highest Price First can be selected.

Browsing Listings and Buying Jewels

The search results are displayed below the filters as Listing Cards. Each Listing Card
represents a Jewel made available for purchase, which can be bought by clicking its Buy
Now button.

After clicking the Buy Now button, a pop-up window will be displayed. The pop-up window
shows the total purchase price (Asking Price + Sale Fee) and asks you to confirm the
purchase.

Clicking Cancel will abort the purchase and close the popup with no funds or items
transferred.

Clicking Buy Jewel will confirm the purchase and the funds will be deducted from your E$
balance. You will also get a notification that the Jewel bought has been moved to your Jewel
Inventory.




Selling Jewels

You can list your own Jewels for sale in the Bazaar from the Jewels section in the Storage
tab.
To list a Jewel for sale, first go to the Selling tab of the menu to the right of the inventory.
Previously listed Jewels will be displayed here.




You can now drag and drop the Jewel of your choice into the Selling Window.

This will open the Sell Jewel pop-up. Here you can enter your Asking Price. The listing price
is made up of your Asking Price and a Sale Fee, which will be paid by the buyer. You will
receive the Asking Price upon successful sale of the Jewel.
​The Sale Fee is calculated in the following way:

5% of Asking Price for all wares up to 99,99 E$ net

4% of Asking Price for all wares between 100,00 E$ - 149,99 E$ net

3% of Asking Price for all wares between 150,00 E$ - 249,99 E$ net

2% of Asking Price for all wares between 250,00 E$ - 499,99 E$ net

1% of Asking Price for all wares over 500,00 E$ net

The Sale Fee for a Jewel sale cannot be lower than the Sale Fee calculated from the median
Asking Price of identical Jewel types in the Bazaar. The Sale Fee is visible to both seller and
buyer, and already included in the listing price.

Clicking Cancel will close the popup and the Jewel will not be listed.

Clicking List Jewel for Sale will list the Jewel in the Bazaar and it will no longer be in your
Inventory.

Managing your Listings

You can manage your listings in the Selling tab in your Jewel Storage at any time.

To change the price of a Jewel, click on the price of the listing you wish to change and add
the new price. Clicking anywhere on the page will prompt a pop-up asking for confirmation
of the change of price.




Clicking Cancel will reset the price to its previous value and close the pop-up window.

Clicking Update Price will save the new value and update the listing.

If you want to completely remove a listing from the Bazaar, click the red Remove button to
the very right of the listing you want to remove.

A pop-up asking for confirmation of removal will appear.




Clicking Cancel will close the pop-up and the listing will remain in the Bazaar.

Clicking Remove Offer will remove the listing from the Bazaar and return the listed Jewel to
your inventory.
​Earth2 News:

Mentars, E-ther, Essence & Holo Buildings

Dear Earth 2® Players, Followers & Spectators,

We hope all is well. The Earth 2® team has been very busy over the past few months most
recently resulting in 7 releases over the past 8 weeks, some noticeable and others less
noticeable. These updates have been primarily focused on Phase 2 features which are both
relevant in Earth 2®’s long-term plans and which focus on rewarding Players who own
land, are creative or remain active. A few days ago the most recent update saw the
introduction of Mentars, E-ther and Essence to Earth 2®. It is also possible for Players to
insert Jewels into designated slots using their Mentar in order to increase Essence yield.
Recent updates have been pushed through for the benefit of our community, however, we
realise we can provide additional information surrounding some of these updates and we
are providing this note to bring our Players up to speed with some of our released features.

Mentars

The Mentar is a core Earth 2® entity and technological structure which can only manifest
and function on virtual land that has been claimed, or is owned, by a Player. Mentars are
essential for the gameplay in Earth 2® as they are the only way a Player can presently
collect Essence. Mentars are able to detect and harness any E-ther (more on E-ther below)
that exists on a Player’s property from time to time and if consumed quickly enough, can
convert part of that E-ther into Essence. Mentars are normally the first structure on a
Players land and once instantiated will always remain in place so long as that property
remains whole and is not subdivided, even if it moves.

Mentars also have the special ability to harness power from Jewels. This is activated when a
Player slots a Jewel into the Mentar. The number of available slots on a Mentar is largely
determined by the size of the property the Mentar is attached to for now. Slotting Jewels
into your Mentar will show a number of positive effects on a Player’s property over time.

E-ther

E-ther is an unstable, difficult to detect and somewhat mysterious matter that spawns from
Player-owned properties inside Earth 2®. Theory has it that when virtual land is claimed
and a Player’s presence is recorded in the very binary of that land, the land itself commits to
improving its own environment to the will of the Player who owns it. E-ther cannot really be
captured or stored but can be detected by a Mentar and if consumed quickly enough by that
Mentar can convert into the very storable and collectable form of Essence.
​Enough is not yet known about E-ther but it would seem that not all E-ther is identical,
 which is evident in the varying E-ther to Essence yields that typically don’t convert the same
 amounts. We know that when captured early enough, E-ther always yields some Essence,
 but never more Essence than E-ther.

Essence

Unlike E-ther, Essence can be collected and stored. Essence is believed to be some kind of a
precursor of matter, since by using it a Player will be able to produce resources more or less
out of thin air – yet only from those resources which exist on the Player’s
properties. Essence allows a user to reproduce these resources without exploiting them and
is the crucial basis for Player property resource production.

There is a common belief that we are yet to learn about the full potential and uses of
Essence but for now Essence is highly desirable on Earth 2® and at some point will likely be
traded and sold directly between Players.

Jewels

Jewels, which began spawning randomly inside Earth 2® a number of weeks ago, are
starting to prove useful by improving the Mentar’s ability to detect E-ther and convert it
into Essence. In general and amongst other things, Jewels can improve the E-ther detection
rate, especially on larger properties, where the distance between Mentar and some places
on the property is large.

Once the ability to produce Resources from Essence is available, Jewels will also serve a key
part in the effectiveness of certain resource production giving proactive Players an even
greater yield from their properties.

Meanwhile, the UPG (Unidentifiable Player Group) are working on the technology to craft a
sort of higher tier jewels from the lower tier jewels which they are hoping will result in the
ability of a more powerful Jewel that surpasses anything that presently seems possible
inside Earth 2®.

Holo Buildings

A new level of creativity was recently released inside Earth 2® named Holo Buildings
(HBs). This quiet release, which allows Players to create HBs using the Earth 2® developed
HB editor, has more to it than meets the eye.

HBs were originally researched and developed to allow Players the ability to plot out future
virtual constructions, weighing up size, look, aesthetic feel and more based on the HBs they
are able to create blueprints for.

The UPG soon discovered the energy required to place and display a single HB inside Earth
2® could also be used for the benefit of the Player, both now and well into the future, giving
more purpose and utility to HBs than originally thought.
​Therefore, while HBs present a Player with the ability to visual and display their planned
 development look and feel on the Property, not to mention a personal expression visible
 from high above, HBs also serve to create a headstart for Players on the Earth 2®
 EcoSim. By way of upgrades, a Player can utilise the space inside their deployed HBs for
 resource storage retrospectively, meaning at the point of the HB deployment and upgrade
 that date is timestamped in the Earth 2® timeline and will be referenced for resource
 generation and storage when such becomes available.

HBs could also be used to expedite research and construction times required inside the
EcoSim and contribute toward a volume metric cost for Phase 3 buildings and structures. It
is even possible that HBs could continue to exist inside a triggerable alternate reality filter
that sits inside the futuristic world of Phase 3.

As with most any type of creativity inside Earth 2®, we strongly believe that user generated
content should be tradable and sellable so without a doubt those creative users generating
amazing HB blueprints will have a place to trade and sell their blueprints in the future,
mutually benefiting the Player, Earth 2® and the purchaser simultaneously.

Summary

Our team is working on expanding on the representation of the new features inside our FAQ
section which will include more How To guides. If you experience any issues though, our
Support has been trained to help you so please reach out at any time.

The features released over the past 8 weeks are building the foundations of Phase 2 and
what will follow. We now have the first buildings and the first and central resources in
place. We have the Jewels that will begin to play a major role in the Player’s strategic
decision making around where your properties’ economic development will lie and we have
the Holo Buildings that allow the Player to plan, see and better prepare for exciting future
developments.

Related Articles

Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels – Oil
November 7, 2023- Sydney, Australia – Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels.
You may have heard these mentioned before, or seen our weekly Resource release
announcements. But what are they and what role do they play in the Earth 2 EcoSim? To
understand how Prospecting Cydroids, Resources and Prime Jewels relate to each other,
and […]

Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels – Silver
October 31, 2023- Sydney, Australia – Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels. You
may have heard these mentioned before, or seen our weekly Resource release
announcements. But what are they and what role do they play in the Earth 2 EcoSim? To
understand how Prospecting Cydroids, Resources and Prime Jewels relate to each other, and
[…]
​Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels – Limestone
 October 27, 2023- Sydney, Australia – Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels. You
 may have heard these mentioned before, or seen our weekly Resource release
 announcements. But what are they and what role do they play in the Earth 2 EcoSim? To
 understand how Prospecting Cydroids, Resources and Prime Jewels relate to each other, and
 […]

Join Our Community
Be a part of our amazing community, connect with fellow players, and get the latest updates
on new Earth 2 developments.

Company

Account

Support

Earth Version 2 Pty Ltd
Level 22, 307 Queen Street,

Brisbane, QLD, Australia, 4000

Earth 2® UK Limited
First floor, 140 Brompton Road,

London, United Kingdom, SW31HY


Earth 2® announces automated customer verification solution
Jumio’s AI-powered verification technology ensures Earth 2® Players are Real and Ready to
Trade

Partnership with Jumio allows for authenticated transactions

Earth 2®, a platform designed to create a one-to-one virtual version of the Earth, is
partnering with Jumio, the leading provider of AI-powered end-to-end identity verification
and eKYC solutions, to streamline its customer verification processes and establish the true
identity of its online users. Players will need to be verified before they are able to purchase
or sell properties on the marketplace.




KYC protects businesses from fraud through a modern identity verification platform that is
easy to set up and is customer friendly. The implementation of customer identity
verification legitimizes the Earth 2® platform and creates a safe network for transactions to
​take place. Recently, the video games industry has seen rising issues involving fraud, money
 laundering, and transactional scamming between players. KYC helps to eliminate those
 problems while expediting Earth 2®’s onboarding, payment processes, and transaction
 monitoring.




“Offering a seamless customer experience is one of our biggest priorities for this ambitious
project,” said Shane Isaac, founder of Earth 2®. “Jumio’s online identity verification is a
game-changing solution that meets global compliance requirements for transactions and
ensures the safeguarding of our platform and players.”




Dean Hickman-Smith, CRO at Jumio added: ” It is vital for online gaming operators to strike
the right balance between fraud detection, regulatory mandates and user experience. We
are delighted to be partnering with Earth 2® to provide a quick and seamless KYC process
for onboarding, funds deposits and payouts.”




Jumio’s solution is both mobile and web-enabled and leverages biometric authentication
such as facial recognition with liveness detection, compliant machine learning, and identity
experts to achieve accurate identity results within a seamless digital environment. KYC
solutions are becoming more commonplace beyond the traditionally regulated banking and
finance sectors as compliance is now mandated across many jurisdictions for additional
industries such as real estate and video games.

Related Articles

Earth 2 and Ready Player Me Announce Strategic Partnership
Sydney, Australia | 20 December, 2022 – Earth 2’s strategic partnership with Ready Player
Me means Players will be able to explore E2V1, the first version of Earth 2’s upcoming 1:1
digital replication of planet Earth, as customisable avatars much earlier than expected. The
partnership was uniquely revealed as part of Earth 2’s recent video […]

Protection of Earth 2 Customer Data
Dec 16 2022 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 takes the protection of its customers’ data very
seriously. In addition to regular code reviews and Quality Assurance (QA) processes, Earth
2 has also hired professional security experts since December, 2020, to identify any
potential security vulnerabilities and work with our development team to ensure any […]
Earth 2 Announces Strategic Partnership with R/GA
May 7, 2022, Sydney Australia – Metaverse platform Earth 2, a futuristic concept for a
geolocational 1:1 scale second Earth, is excited to officially announce a strategic partnership
with the internationally recognised, award winning, innovation and design-driven global
​company R/GA. The R/GA Singapore partnership will integrate product strategy,
 experience design, product design, and web and […]

Join Our Community
Be a part of our amazing community, connect with fellow players, and get the latest updates
on new Earth 2 developments.

Company

Account

Support

Earth Version 2 Pty Ltd
Level 22, 307 Queen Street,

Brisbane, QLD, Australia, 4000

Earth 2® UK Limited
First floor, 140 Brompton Road,

London, United Kingdom, SW31HY



Earth 2® Set to Launch Unique Property Identifier System
The countdown has commenced for Earth 2® Property Locators, or EPLs, available 1pm
UTC September 8th, 2021

Sydney, Australia – September 6, 2021 Virtual Earth platform Earth 2® has announced the
September 8th launch of its new property upgrade feature, the EPL. Short for Earth 2®
Property Locator, EPL is a global identifier unique to each Earth 2 property. Players can
upgrade to further customize their EPL to a unique word or phase, as opposed to the default
alphanumeric code. The initial EPLs on offer are premium, meaning they will not require
any type of extension or location identifier on the name.

The EPL functions similarly to a URL in that it’s a unique searchable address that allows
users to locate a position or experience inside Earth 2®. Each EPL is connected to a specific
property deed. Users will have the option to purchase an upgraded EPL with an easy-to-
remember acronym, allowing for greater customisation and discoverability. Upgraded EPLs
can be bought with E$ or player earned Essence. The parameters for upgraded EPL names
will vary based on the size of each property and the class of tiles.

“Earth 2® is launching EPLs specifically to provide our early community members, the
Earth 2® visionaries, with an opportunity to secure unique, desirable and discoverable
identifiers for their properties. Most of Earth 2’s players have already received bonus $E or
in-game play-to-earn Essence which can be used to purchase EPLs but even so, there is no
pressure to claim an EPL, it is completely optional” said Earth 2® founder, Shane Isaac
​“EPLs offer players an instant connection to properties and experiences, and we envisage
 the popularity and desirability of EPLs to increase as our platform continues to expand.”

In the future EPLs will require annual renewal fees, and plans are in the works for an open
market system where users can buy and sell unique EPLs, since availability is limited. Those
purchasing EPLs now would not expect to see any annual fees for at least 24 months and
even after that period early buyers can expect a very nominal fee. In addition to the use of
EPLs in the economy-driven Phase 2, Phase 3 will further expand their functionality through
the upcoming Teleportation System providing significant additional discoverability to
properties with short or catchy EPLs on a global scale.

Earth 2® launched Phase 1 of our metaverse vision in late 2020, allowing users to buy, sell,
and trade virtual land on Earth 2®’s developing platform. To date, it is the most successful
virtual land platform in history having sold more land to more people than any other project
worldwide while building a truly diversified, global, engaged community. Phase 2 began
rolling out earlier this year with additional gameplay and feature elements consistent with
our longer-term goals of a fully-functioning economy and robust metaverse experience.
Property in Earth 2® has unique intrinsic value as it is player-owned, both in the real world
and the metaverse and is the starting point for all of Earth 2®’s economic and metaverse
activities, including play-to-earn virtual rewards, advertisement, blockchain, user generated
content tools and many more upcoming developments.



Earth 2® “Network” Humble Beginnings
Today we are excited to introduce the humble beginnings of the Earth 2® “Network”. The
Earth 2® Network will become the centralised system where information, communication,
notifications and more are delivered to our Players on Earth 2®. Anything of relevance to
you as a Player will be found inside the Earth 2® Network over time.

Today, the first part of the Earth 2® Network will be released in the form of the
communication hub, a place where you can conveniently receive updates on your E-ther
detection, spawned Jewels, Bids, Marketplace Updates and more.

Over time the Earth 2® Network will expand to include a fully fledged social media and
communication platform, something which has been in production for some time and is
drawing closer to release.

We thank you for your support and for joining us on this journey as we piece together the
numerous core features necessary to make the Earth 2® platform a robust and successful
player driven geo-locational Metaverse.

We appreciate your patience as our team continues to work on numerous other exciting
Earth 2® updates and partnerships, many of which we look forward to sharing with you,
our Player, soon.
​HoloBuildings, Updates and Fixes

September, 23, 2021 – Today marks the second part of the official release of HoloBuildings
on Earth 2®. This release now allows Players to place permanent HoloBuildings on their
properties which, in addition to creating more visual appeal, will provide Players with a
variety of benefits inside the Earth 2® EcoSim over time. Subsequent releases will allow
Players to construct HoloBuildings using Essence and provide a marketplace where Players
can sell their HoloBuilding Blueprint designs.

Once constructed, HoloBuildings improve the appearance of a property but also serve as
storage space from that point in time. Storage space and volume Space alone will be of value
inside Earth 2® throughout Phase 2, Phase 3 and beyond. After the launch of the economic
simulation, HoloBuildings will retain their function as extra storage and significantly
increase the amount of raw materials and building blocks a Player’s properties can hold.

In addition to the above benefit and again once the economic simulation launches, Players
with preconstructed HoloBuildings will have a head start by receiving the option to
retrospectively produce or replicate Essence into the maximum number of collective
resources that would have been available on that property throughout the period of time
since the HoloBuilding was created.

For now, HoloBuildings can be constructed using E$ and we feel the advantages they will
provide long term will undoubtedly justify their low construction costs. We do have plans
for Essence to be used to construct HoloBuildings and are working on updates to make this
available to our Players. We will continue to update Players on further specifics around the
benefits of HoloBuildings when details are ready for release.



Earth 2® & Mapbox HoloBuilding Press Release
The Mapbox GL-JS and GL-Draw APIs led system gives players the first tools they need to
create, edit and deploy their Earth 2® created HoloBuilding layouts.

Sydney, Australia, September 23rd- Earth 2®, a metaverse platform that aims to provide a
one-to-one virtual version of the Earth, has announced the initial rollout of HoloBuildings,
allowing players to create and place 3D buildings and structures on their claimed virtual
land to customize their properties.

HoloBuildings are much more than just a visual embellishment of a property. They can serve
a whole range of functions that help Earth 2® Players run their economies more effectively
and more profitably. Depending on how players choose to develop their properties,
HoloBuildings can support the creation of additional storage space for resources that exist
at the start of the EcoSim. The earlier a respective HoloBuilding construction occurs and the
larger it is, the more resources players will have retrospective access to on the respective
property once theEcoSim begins. HoloBuildings are also capable of shortening the
construction times and lowering the cost for EcoSim storage buildings. In the long run, the
advantages of Holobuildings can massively outweigh their costs.
​The roll out of HoloBuildings is one part of Earth 2®’s ongoing goal to become the deepest
 platform for virtual real estate, products and digital economic transactions that represent
 the real world and real world locations. This expansiveness will eventually lead to a
 platform filled with user-generated content, concepts, and ideas by players across the
 world.

“As we’re ramping up and improving all processes we need the right partners to help us
achieve our ambitious goals and we’re extremely pleased to have forged such a close
working relationship with Mapbox moving forward,” said Shane Isaac, founder of Earth 2®.
“The roll out of HoloBuildings clearly demonstrates our intention to support and promote
player creativity by way of user generated content which can not only look good but serves
further purpose inside the Earth 2® simulation. We’re thrilled to be providing this next step
in HoloBuildings to our players today, while we continue to work internally on our Phase 3,
realistic and user-friendly 3D creative editors.”

Virtual land and real estate on Earth 2® holds real-world value and can be traded for actual
currency. This is the first step towards creating an economy that will support and sustain
Earth 2®’s long term vision.

“Earth 2® is a great example of how our leading-edge location and mapping technologies
are leveraged to support a robust metaverse and hyper-connected community. Earth 2®
uses our latest satellite imagery, 3D, and our Mapbox Tiling Service (MTS) to process
massive amounts of transactional data which is then rendered into HeatMaps across Earth
2®’s entire globe every four hours,” said Peter Sirota, CEO of Mapbox. “Earth 2®’s recent
launch of holobuildings enables a powerful user-generated content capability while
unleashing an exciting layer of creativity to the community. We look forward to supporting

Earth 2® as they continue to innovate and launch new features today and in the future.”


Earth 2 to release Jewel Crafting
November 11, 2021 – Earth 2 is excited to announce the upcoming release of Jewel Crafting.
Jewels will become a central part of the planned Earth 2 EcoSim and will be able to boost,
control and specialise the resource production on a Player’s property. Over coming days,
Earth 2 will introduce an additional layer to Jewels called Jewel Crafting. Jewel Crafting is a
new feature which provides the ability for players to craft their existing Jewels into superior
second tier level Jewels that can be tailored toward a market’s needs.

Players will be able to craft stronger Jewels by combining multiple ones together, or shatter
them, which generates something called Shards. Shards can then be combined into smaller
Jewels of a chosen colour, or, together with Essence, crafted with Jewels you already own to
further improve their quality and effect.

In addition to their key part of the EcoSim, Jewels will provide multiple levels of utility in
other areas of Earth 2, including the first, soon to be announced, official PvP game. In such
​games, it will be optional for game creators to set the benefits Jewels release during game
 play and even whether the Jewel then becomes a consumable, or not.

“In a traditional game such commodities would be sold and distributed directly from the
game creator to the player and would not be tradeable between other players on an open
market for their value”, said Shane Isaac, founder of Earth 2. “Earth 2 believes in breaking
this trend as one of our core long term beliefs is to include players in the entire ecosystem
allowing for player involvement and participation in the distribution of game play assets,
user generated content and in the future player experiences. Our approach with Jewels
feeds into our overall desire to create a player governed, geolocational metaverse and the
idea of introducing Jewel spawning on existing Earth 2 properties at an early stage is an
initiative to reward our early supporters and land owners”.

A further level of Jewel Crafting is scheduled to be released over coming weeks with each
future release unlocking scores of more potential crafting results, a number that will
continue to grow on each new release. Crafting will inherently have a deflationary effect on
Jewel supply and increase their scarcity which will become more apparent as we continue
to officialise our long term plans.

This announcement and release is part of our Earth 2 Anniversary month celebration with
more scheduled announcements, surprises and news to come over the duration of
November, 2021!
Game Activity

3 weeks ago the first version of the Earth 2 Game Activity feed went live. This feature
displays some of the activity occurring on the Earth 2 network at any given time and
importantly provides an indication on what players are presently doing on Earth 2. It was
created to provide a level of togetherness and transparency. We intend to expand the Game
Activity feed with additional types of data as more Earth 2 products are released, including
potential filter options.

Players may visit their settings page to activate anonymity if they do not wish to have their
public username shown on the Game Activity feed.

Since the September 24 announcement, there have been 5 updates released on Earth 2, the
soon to be Jewel Crafting update will make 6. Our October 20 release included some
community requested updates and though most of those updates were minor, we received
good positive feedback from the community, thank you.

Moving forward, we plan to create a community forum where Players can officially lodge
bugs, suggest features and vote on level of importance, and our development team will
attempt to integrate more community fixes and improvements where and when possible.
This aligns with our long term goal of Earth 2 being a platform that is gradually run by the
players.
​Announcement & Retrospective Essence Reward for Earth 2 Land Owners
 03/DEC/2021

Dear Earth 2 Players,

We hope all is well and that you are keeping safe and healthy.

As we wave goodbye to the end of our maiden year, we want to thank you for your ongoing
support for and dedication to Earth 2. Your most recent show of support in the Enter the
Metaverse event was truly fantastic to see!

Our one-year anniversary month may have officially ended but we still have exciting news
and developments we wish to share with you this month including a new major
partnership, new core team members, our tech acquisition and possibly 1 or 2 other
technical partnerships we have been working with our existing partners which will actively
focus on assisting us build the Earth 2 Phase 3 core technology. In fact, each announcement
we plan to make will be a piece of the puzzle that will reveal our big-picture plan for Earth
2. It is not a traditional roadmap, but it will give significant insight into the direction we are
heading going into our second year, and beyond.

While you have been patiently waiting, we have been working diligently to create and
implement robust foundations for a sustainable, player-driven ecosystem within our
platform, and for our metaverse. Solid foundations are the key to sustainable development
that will facilitate exponential growth in Earth 2’s future. This includes expansion and
innovation within our platform offerings, as well as user-base growth and diversification,
and collaborative services which will holistically enhance the overall E2 metaverse
experience.

Since inception, our core vision for Earth 2 as a real-world, geolocation based metaverse
that is fully customisable has not changed. In the physical world, an urban environment
designed with purpose to support an economically diverse society is key to making a
sustainable city where inhabitants are empowered by an adaptive environment that
responds to needs and facilitates self-actualisation. This concept applies when creating a
metaverse designed to exist in perpetuity. Any successful metaverse is dependent on the
quality and range of user activity and we are acutely aware that with proper design, we can
succeed in creating a sustainable ecosystem within our platform for our players.Thus, our
metaverse will empowers its inhabitants through creation, collaboration, utility, sustainable
growth, engagement and player rewards. This announcement details one part of a whole
series of components that will come together in realising and strengthening our core
metaverse vision.

This vision has been at the forefront of our iterative decision-making processes, and we are
very pleased to announce our Essence Distribution Commitment (EDC) and the role it will
play going forward. The Essence Distribution Commitment is a promise to reward our
existing land owning players an exact number of the minimum Essence they can expect to
​generate from their properties over time. We are applying the same rule to reward for every
 property equally depending on which country the properties are purchased in. This EDC will
be inherently linked to and reside on every individual Tier 1 founder property (that is all
properties purchased before the EDC deployment). This ensures that the players owning a
particular property are aligned with the long term goals of Earth 2 and genuinely intend to
partake in Essence as a resource of Utility on our platform. The amount of Essence linked to
a property will be publicly visible to anyone and we believe that when Essence has an
externally determined trading value, this will naturally be linked to the player driven trading
price on a property. This is clearly beneficial for all holders of Tier 1 founder properties.
Having said that, as a special final bonus to celebrate this day, Earth 2 will instantly release
20% of all Essence held inside the properties directly to the accounts of the current land
owner of those properties and the remaining 80% will be made available through existing
and future game play. This availability will be sped up for those who more actively partake
in various game play features on our platform.

This commitment means that our early adopters, holders and loyal players will receive the
first benefits, many of which could be retrospective, of being a part of the Earth 2
community and participating in the progress of our metaverse. This commitment involves a
shift in tile hierarchy which will not only bring more value and utility to long term, active
players, but attract and facilitate the sustained on-boarding of new players through
affordable land ownership options for prospective land owners. The introduction of the
“Tier” classification will create depth in the virtual land real estate that will enable a
diversified player base which is a crucial factor in the sustainability of our metaverse.

Beyond that, this commitment is a gesture of our appreciation for our community.
Especially those early adopters who have held on tightly with us on this exciting –
sometimes seemingly unpredictable – roller coaster of a journey that has been our first year.
We wanted to reward your dedication and acknowledge the trust our players have put into
Earth 2. This promise of Essence is an exclusive gift and we feel its potential value will
continue to be realised as we publicise further announcements. Again, this is just a small
part of a greater dynamic ecosystem that will enhance the E2 metaverse we envisioned
since 2017.

Congratulations to all of our new Tier 1 founder property owners! Once our servers are
back online with the update you will be able to progressively see this retrospective bonus
gift appear inside your account and your properties over the next 24 hours! If you are
experiencing any issues after this period please reach out to:

Support: https://support.earth2.io/hc/en-us

Once our core services are back online please feel free to read more about the details of this
Essence Distribution Commitment on our website:

More info : https://earth2.io/edc (if not available yet it means our core servers have not
come back online)
​Stay tuned for our next announcement! It might be coming sooner than you think!



Earth 2 announces decentralization plans and partnership with Polygon
Studios
Sydney, Australia – December 2021. Earth 2, the metaverse platform and virtual twin of our
real world, today announced its decentralization plans and upcoming blockchain
deployment to put its digital properties on-chain, and onto the public Ethereum ecosystem
using the Polygon protocol and framework.

Earth 2’s player-owned digital economy has experienced hyper-growth since its late 2020
launch and now, via its decentralization plans, will convert select in-game digital assets to
crypto, effectively transferring them to the blockchain. This will provide immediate value to
Earth 2’s community via direct, on-chain, non-custodial ownership of their digital
properties with the ability to buy, sell and trade on a permissionless basis without the
consent of any 3rd-party.

Earth 2’s upcoming integration with Polygon’s commit chain solutions also provides its
users with increased transaction volumes with predictable costs and settlement times, and
the option to move transactions and assets onto the public Ethereum mainnet. In addition,
Earth 2 is partnering with Polygon Studios to scale its platform and create new models to
enhance blockchain gaming and metaverse experiences while leveraging Polygon’s full-
stack scaling solutions and industry leadership in the use of zk-proofs and rollups.

“Our partnership with Polygon Studios allows Earth 2 to move our platform and community
to Web3, enabling direct user ownership and control of digital property, and providing a
trustless means for players to accrue real economic value created from their participation in
the metaverse” said Shane Isaac, founder and CEO of Earth 2. “Integrating with Polygon will
enable reduced gas fees, faster transactions, and a seamless crypto user experience for all
Earth 2 users.”

“Collaborating with a metaverse and virtual economy leader like Earth 2 highlights our
commitment to the blockchain gaming and NFT ecosystems” said Sandeep Nailwal, co-
founder of Polygon. “Our powerful set of tools to scale transactions will enable Earth 2 to
continue to innovate, close the gap between Web3 and Web2 gaming, and bring truly novel
experiences to their digital economy and beyond”.

About Earth2

Earth 2® is a futuristic concept for a second earth; a metaverse, between virtual and
physical reality in which real-world geolocations correspond to user generated digital
virtual environments. These environments can be owned, bought, sold, and in the near
future deeply customized.

Twitter | Reddit | Discord | Instagram | Facebook | LinkedIn
​About Polygon Studios

Polygon Studios is the Gaming and NFT arm of Polygon focused on growing the global
Blockchain Gaming and NFT Industry and bridging the gap between Web 2 and Web 3
gaming through investment, marketing and developer support. The Polygon Studios
ecosystem comprises highly loved games and NFT projects like OpenSea, Upshot,
Aavegotchi, Zed Run, Skyweaver by Horizon Games, Decentraland, Megacryptopolis, Neon
District, Cometh, and Decentral Games.

About Polygon

Polygon is the leading platform for Ethereum scaling and infrastructure development. Its
growing suite of products offers developers easy access to all major scaling and
infrastructure solutions: L2 solutions (ZK Rollups and Optimistic Rollups), sidechains,
hybrid solutions, stand-alone and enterprise chains, data availability solutions, and more.
Polygon’s scaling solutions have seen widespread adoption with 3000+ applications hosted,
~600M total transactions processed, ~60M unique user addresses, and $5B+ in assets
secured.


Earth 2 announces acquisition of 3D fast-paced sci-fi vehicular combat
game DRONE
Sydney, Australia – December, 2021 – Earth 2, the metaverse platform and virtual twin of
our real world, has announced the acquisition of DRONE The Game (DRONE), a fast-paced
3D-action combat game where players custom build their sci-fi vehicles and player-versus-
player environments.

The acquisition will facilitate Earth 2’s first official 3D gameplay implementation through
the integration of core components from DRONE’s tech stack, including its advanced arena
and vehicle editors, with Earth 2’s metaverse platform.

Along with onboarding DRONE’s core engineering and creative development team, Earth 2
plans to accelerate many aspects of its internal development by leveraging DRONE’s
adaptive technology, including its advanced rendering and texturing systems, terrain
building tools, real-time lighting and particle systems, networking and backend
technologies, procedural modelling and mesh generation systems, plus dynamic AI
pathfinding.

“The ultimate goal of this acquisition is direct ownership of innovative world building and
gameplay technologies to extend Earth 2’s Metaverse platform. It illustrates our ongoing
commitment to invest in our development team, and to acquire technical expertise relevant
to delivering Earth 2’s experience to millions of people across the globe,” said Shane Isaac,
founder of Earth 2. “User Generated Content and utilizing our community’s creativity is a
priority for Earth 2 as we continue to leverage blockchain technology to move our platform
to Web 3 in partnership with Polygon Studios.”
​Earth 2 is dedicated to continuing the development of DRONE, including its integration into
 the Earth 2 platform. Further details on how DRONE and its underlying technology will be
 used inside Earth 2 will be released progressively over the coming months.

DRONE, including its Arena and Vehicle Editor, is available on Steam in its current state,
untouched as yet by any Earth 2 updates. We invite our players to download the free trial
version if they wish to begin familiarising themselves with the demo but urge people not to
purchase the full version just yet as Earth 2 intends to change the price of the game to FREE
in the near future.

Current Steam listing.

Official Video Announcement : https://youtu.be/1jOCFvNbbkI


Former Senior Binance Director, Omar Rahim, joins Earth 2 as Strategic
Advisor
Omar Rahim Joins the Earth 2 Team as Their Newest Strategic Advisor

December 22, 2021 – Sydney, Australia

Metaverse platform Earth 2 is excited to announce the appointment of Omar Rahim, a
former Senior Director at cryptocurrency giant Binance, to strategic advisor where he will
focus on Earth 2’s decentralisation initiatives, partnership programs and overall transition
to the crypto space.

Shane Isaac, CEO of Earth 2, commented “I am very excited for what we have planned for
Earth 2 in 2022, especially our upcoming blockchain deployments with both token launches
and NFT drops in addition to upcoming gameplay and world building feature releases.
Omar brings us a wealth of knowledge, connections, and experience in the crypto industry
that will facilitate our decentralisation plans and advance our Web 3 strategy.”

Omar Rahim, commenting on the new role said, “Earth 2 is one of the most exciting
Metaverse projects I have seen in the space and has phenomenal potential. They have
experienced unprecedented organic growth since launching and the time is right to
decentralise certain elements of the platform to take Earth 2’s community and experience to
the next level.”


Earth 2 plans to release its whitepaper in 2022 and will provide future updates via its
website and official social media accounts.

About Earth 2

Earth 2® is a futuristic concept for a second earth; a metaverse, between virtual and
physical reality in which real-world geolocations correspond to user generated digital
​virtual environments. These environments can be owned, bought, sold, and in the near
 future deeply customized.

Twitter | Reddit | Discord | Instagram | Facebook | LinkedIn

About Omar Rahim

Omar is a seasoned cryptocurrency executive and entrepreneur, most recently responsible
for leading Binance’s business across the MENA region. Prior to this, he ran his own
companies in the trading and crypto space, leveraging his experience as a commodities and
financial markets trader.


Gifting of Virtual Land on Earth 2
Dec 23, 2021 – Just in time for Christmas, Earth 2 has launched its new gifting feature,
allowing players the ability to send ownership of unique virtual land tiles of any geolocation
on earth. Virtual land on Earth 2 directly corresponds to exact locations in the real world
making each piece of land, including the sole ownership of that land, completely unique.

What does gifting bring to Earth 2?

The gifting feature will not only make it easier for the welcoming of new players into
community driven land projects, such as MegaCities, but also serves as an interesting and
different type of gift experience which provides the recipient with direct ownership of land
at the starting point of Earth 2’s metaverse, the largest virtual land registry in the world in
both size and diversified ownership.

Earth 2 predicts the metaverse to be a constantly growing and evolving concept, much like
the Internet, and with this ongoing expansion, the number of possible use cases and
functions for virtual land inside the metaverse will continue to grow.
“Empowering players with more agency over the utility of their land, beyond trading, is a
natural progression towards the futuristic, player-driven metaverse envisioned by Earth 2”,
said Earth 2 Founder, Shane Isaac. “Irrelevant of the occasion, virtual land makes for a very
different, interesting and unique gift, on so many levels.”

Players of Earth 2 have already begun discovering such versatility, with one player taking
advantage of the new feature, in his own unique way, to create a virtual memento of the
exact location where his engagement proposal took place.

“I proposed in front of thousands of people before watching the Nutcracker at the Lexington
Opera House,” said Matt Haydon, an Earth 2 community member who recently shared his
special experience publicly online.

He went on to say, “I’m thankful Earth 2 added the gifting option. A few minutes and 1 tile
later I’d frozen a moment in time forever. It’s a simple way to “engage” the recipient and
​give them a taste of E2. New user or existing, it’s a nice touch just in time for the holiday
 season.”




Using our new gifting feature to share and immortalise meaningful locations is only one of
many varying reasons to give the gift of land to someone. With our recent introduction of
Tier 2 virtual land tiles, a partnership with Polygon Studios and the tech acquisition of
DRONE the Game, now is a great time for players to reserve their own piece of the future
inside Earth 2.




How to access the gifting feature:

Gifting is available from one Earth 2 user to another or one Earth 2 user to any valid email
address. In the future, gifting will also expand to become available on Earth 2’s own social
media platform.

The team at Earth 2 loved hearing about the story of Matt’s proposal, if you have a unique
story you would like to share with us, post it on our official Earth 2 Community Facebook
page, or tag us in our socials!

About Earth 2

Earth 2® is a futuristic concept for a second earth; a metaverse, between virtual and
physical reality in which real-world geolocations correspond to user generated digital
virtual environments. These environments can be owned, bought, sold, and in the near
future deeply customized.

Twitter | Reddit | Discord | Instagram | Facebook | LinkedIn

Permission was obtained from Matt Haydon to include his story and images in this article.
The Earth 2 team would like to thank Matt Haydon for his permission and to congratulate
Matt and his fiance on their beautiful and unique engagement. We wish them many happy
years ahead together!


Web Updates and Happy New Year!
Dear Earth 2 Players,

We hope all is well and Happy New Year!

We’re a little bit late to the New Year’s party but our team has been working hard on some
important fixes and updates over the break. In continuation of the trajectory we were on at
the end of 2021, we plan to provide ongoing updates, articles and plans to our players and
​community as frequently as possible throughout 2022. In addition to the web updates
 deployed hours ago, you can expect the next tier level of Jewels, a completely revamped
 bidding system and a short but informative dev vlog to go live over the next few weeks.

The recent web updates include a complete revamp of the header user interface which
features more user-friendly map view modes and a repositioned searchbar now located
conveniently beside it to keep all map-related features in one location.
The How-To, Support and News buttons have also been added to the main header for easier
access when players are logged in, all of which results in more features being available and
easy to access by players using mobile devices.

Some other important updates that have gone live are fixes to the holobuilding editor, with
the limit on editable blueprints being removed, keeping the “Clone” and “Delete” action
buttons consistently available, and keeping holobuildings in proportion when placed on
different land fields to the one they were created on. Tile generation on the editor was also
optimised. These changes provide a more enjoyable creative experience for our E2
creators.

Small changes like these, especially the web UI updates, are part of our longer term goal to
release the first version of the Earth 2 launcher and allow us to not only release parts of the
expected UI of the launcher via our website early, but also test how well that UI is works
with a live audience.

Contrary to what some may say, building a metaverse can and should be achieved in smaller
steps starting with features that have long term fundamental relevance inside the
metaverse.

Player creativity, trade, gaming, opportunity, ownership, cooperation, rewards and voting
are a start and a must, and we will continue to work on setting these smaller foundations in
parallel to working on the bigger, long term Phase 3 vision.

Thank you for being part of this journey and a Happy 2022 to you, the most important part
of Earth 2!

Here’s to the beginning of another year moving closer to our goals!
https://app.earth2.io/#thegrid – check out the new header UI update
https://earth2.io/updates – keep up to date with details on this release and others. This
being the ‘official’ update number 48.



Tier 3 Jewels add to 1.3m Player sold Jewels to date
20th of January, 2022, Sydney – Earth 2 is pleased to announce the introduction of Tier 3
Jewels into our evolving EcoSim. This introduction sees the next level of player crafted
jewels released inside Earth 2 and is part of our ongoing commitment to tweak and expand
​the important economical component of our future metaverse. Over time, we envision
 these changes will bring new dimensions to Earth 2 and future gameplay mechanics
 involving the upcoming Resource release, as well as other aspects, such as PvP.

The Jewel system was created to introduce gameplay that would foremost serve to benefit
its players in play and trade and has been incredibly successful for the Earth 2 community
resulting in very healthy user to user trade volumes. In fact, Earth 2 jewel crafters have sold
over 1.3 million Jewels to date, inside the Bazaar, for a stable value in fiat of over $1m.
These statistics are important as they validate a proof of concept concerning player crafted
assets being created and successfully traded inside Earth 2 and we intend on expanding this
to include more player crafted or created content that will ideally, where possible, have
varying attributes linked to benefits inside the Earth 2 metaverse.

This Jewel release now expands the total number of possible jewels by more than 3 fold,
resulting not only in more potential crafting combinations but also slotting strategies for
those players who wish to focus on mastering the EcoSim gameplay.

When asked about the reasoning behind the new mechanics, Earth 2 Game Designer, Marco
Stano, explained, “With Tier 3 Jewels, I wanted to hand a lot of control over to the player on
how much Essence a property yields, which Resources are being produced and what to
focus on. What’s currently happening is that players discern which Jewel is the best and
then focus solely on obtaining as many Jewels of that type as possible.”

He revealed, “With Tier 3, we’re tying them in closer with Resources, which are location
dependent. In addition, a lot of Jewels now have an Essence bonus attached to them,
increasing [the] options. Thus, the best Jewel for player A might be different for player B;
and with Interference in play, you may want to find a working combination of Jewel colors
that both maximizes your Essence and Resource yield. A desert property will have a very
different optimal combination compared to a forest property, for example, which is a great
base for trade.”
This suggests a significant relationship between Tier 3 Jewels, Essence generation and
Resource production, meaning players will need to consider using a combination of strategy
and luck to optimise the effects of slotting.

Tier 3 Jewels are characterised by a mixed-colour appearance. While not unlike Tier 2
jewels in that these mixed-colour jewels will increase production of multiple Resources
without increasing cost, when a property is slotted completely using these crafted, mixed-
coloured jewels, Essence production on the property could be boosted by up to double digit
percentages.

Tier 3 Jewels differ from Tier 2 Jewels in that not only are there now a multitude of different
colour combinations, some coloured jewels can cause interference with other coloured
jewels, or even with themselves. Earth 2 players will need to experiment with multiple
colours to discover the optimal slotting combinations resulting in another dimension to the
game that rewards players who spend time investigating, researching and testing.
​In addition to the new mechanics of Tier 3 Jewels, there is a very special and rare jewel that
 only the very luckiest of players will be able to discover; the Brilliant Jewel. To date, there
 are only a very small handful of Brilliant Jewels in existence, making it the highest possible
 quality of jewel a player can aspire to obtain in Earth 2. Brilliant Jewels can boost Essence
 generation by up to 60%, as well as allow jewels to exist which simultaneously prime
 Resource production and boost Essence generation. It is important to note that there is no
 specific “recipe” for crafting a Brilliant Jewel, they are simply a random and ultra-rare
 occurring variant of the Luminous Jewel.

Furthermore, in conjunction with the launch of the Tier 3 Jewels, Earth 2 has also
implemented the following updates to the jewel system:

The new Jewel tier release illustrates our commitment to actively adapt various segments of
the Earth 2 EcoSim in order to ensure it is not only interesting but balanced, and our game
design team will continue to monitor the actual results of the released updates. As a result of
this particular update, players on Earth 2 can now begin crafting more types of jewels and
look forward to discovering how the jewels they craft affect Resource discovery and
production on their properties.


Second Egg Hunt Live and Update
January 29, 2022 – Sydney

The Egg Hunt

Earth 2’s second Egg Hunt is underway, and it’s free for all Earth 2 Players to participate!
All you need is a free Earth 2 account to play!

The Egg Hunt concept was created last year to provide rewards to those Players closely
following Earth 2 related posts, videos, images and more. It takes no time away from our
core development progress and is a fun way for our community to engage with such
updates. It also rewards the most diligent, observant, and quick to react players with the
potential to win one of the coveted Eggs and its prize.

Last year, Earth 2 officially announced its upcoming decentralization and blockchain
deployment plan. This puts digital properties on-chain and converts certain in-game digital
assets to crypto, effectively transferring them to the blockchain. In line with the plan for
later this year, winners of this Egg hunt will receive an additional prize in the form of an
official Earth 2 NFT Egg. If you were one of the lucky winners or runners-up from the Egg
Hunt last year, you will also be awarded an NFT of your egg.

Only a couple of Eggs have been hidden so far but new eggs could be hidden inside anything
officially Earth 2 related including posts on our website, social media accounts and possibly
even from the E2 founder this time so be sure to keep an eye out for new posts!

Before you get started, here are the rules for this year’s Egg Hunt:
​Please do not report egg findings directly to Earth 2 Community Managers or ask for
 validation whether you’ve found an egg or not. It creates a significant amount of additional
 work for our Community Management team in particular and most team members are not
 aware of where the eggs are hidden until days after they are released.

Simply follow the rules and wait until the list of winners is released after which time you
will be able to challenge any results you feel are inaccurate.

Update
Hours ago the Earth 2 team also released some updates making it 3 updates and website
releases now in 3 weeks. A brief summary of the latest updates include:

Remember you can review previous updates any time by visiting :

https://earth2.io/updates

Happy Egg Hunting everyone and stay tuned for more Earth 2 updates including an update
on Resources, Countries fixed and to be unlocked, our new Dev Vlog and more!


Progress Update on Resources
February 9, 2022

Dear Earth 2 Players,

We hope all is well. Many of our Players have been waiting patiently for Resources to
become detectable on Earth 2 and we would like to provide an update on its progress. This
update will include details on how the location of Resources will be determined and an
indication on what to expect in the lead up to Resources going live.

Resources will become a key part of our EcoSim, which is a critical component of the entire
Earth 2 Metaverse and how it functions at an operational level. Trade is a big word which
encompasses many things and just like in the real world where most things revolve around
trade, so will the EcoSim, and Resources are going to play a massive part in setting the
foundations of what we feel will grow into a system of global digital trade with supply,
demand and prices being determined by secondary markets. We believe that over time this
will ultimately create additional extrinsic value to creations and digitals assets inside, or
even associated with, Earth 2.

The basis of our Metaverse is the use of real-world geolocations which provide a familiar
link between the virtual and physical reality. Accurately creating this link between the two
realities is a highly involved process and something we feel strongly about getting right.
Anyone could simply drop random resources onto a map and say ‘voila’, but we have taken
our time to meticulously gather and compile extensive real world physical data of resource
locations from multiple trusted data sources and programmatically process that data into
the virtual land on Earth 2 at a global scale.
​But what about if the Earth 2 Resource data doesn’t show the Resources I think I have on
 my land?

Interaction and collaboration with our Earth 2 Player Community is extremely important to
us and as we move toward the decentralisation of Earth 2, we are constantly looking at
ways to involve the community in decisions and processes that are important to creating
the foundations of what Earth 2 is and what it will become. Therefore, we are presently
building a method for our community to manually claim the presence of Resources on their
properties should it be missed inside the initial Earth 2 Resource data set.

The purpose of this feature is motivation toward the pursuit of truth and less so for the
pursuit of personal gain, however, there will be rewards for Players who accurately report
or validate manual claims when the time comes.

Many Earth 2 features released to date are in fact building blocks, or stepping stones,
toward bigger features we plan to release in the future that play part of a bigger picture and
Earth 2 Player Resource Validation (E2PRV) is one such example.

If Earth 2 Resource data misses a resource a Player feels they have on their property, E2PRV
will serve an initial purpose of allowing Players to report the absence of that resource and
give other Players the opportunity to validate whether the report is accurate or not. Players
who report correctly will receive that resource on their property and Players who validate a
correct report will be rewarded with a bonus, yet to be announced, but it will most probably
include Essence.

The E2PRV will be limited to a certain period of time, most likely three months, after which
Earth 2’s core Resource locations on owned land will be set. Land Owners who wish to
report a Resource they believe is on their property will need to supply proof of its existence,
as well as pay a “Protective Fee” for each claim and validation made during this period. This
will help validators assess their own position and whether they should support your claim
or not. The fee will be refunded in full when a claim is successful and exists for the purpose
of eliminating unnecessary spam claims so that legitimate claims can be fast-tracked and
verified quickly.

A mapping interface for this feature will allow the community to manage and monitor
claims in progress (including those rejected and approved) across the globe. Successful
claims will be published on that interface and colour-coded according to the type of
Resource. Users will also have the ability to vote on open claims if there is particular
interest in a certain location or type of Resource. While this will not automatically
authenticate the claim, it will help our team to focus efforts on claims that are of higher
priority.

Once completed successfully, our plan is to expand E2PRV into other staking, validation and
voting systems driven by the community. We are also excited to announce that it is our long
term goal to decentralise key Resources from Earth 2 as individual tokens or NFTs, adding a
whole new layer of game play and Player determined pricing, supply and demand. As with
​Essence, there will be an extended period in which Resources will operate centralised inside
 of Earth 2, providing us with important data to determine and refine the metrics.

We are now in the process of final data checks and the integration of this global Resource
data has, so far, been a major procedural and technical undertaking and something that we
are working through as effectively as possible. We are looking forward to seeing you
reporting and validating Resources on your land by Q2, 2022!

The purpose of this announcement is to provide an update to the Earth 2 Community.
Further details and exact processes will be released before the E2PRV goes live.



Watch the first video in our new Dev Vlog series plus Leaderboard Update
& more
First Dev Vlog video in new Series goes Live

Earth 2 is proud to kick off the first installment of our new developer vlog series where we
will be providing periodic updates and insights into parts of key technical developments
that segments of our engineering team have been focusing on and prototyping.

One of the most exciting development areas for Earth 2 is our advanced terrain rendering
engine, which is relevant for our longer-term Phase 3 implementation plans and is a major
focus of our 3D open world developmental roadmap. This engine will not only support real-
time, photorealistic terrain and environment rendering on a large-scale but also accurately
reflect our real world’s topology, locations and importantly our digital land grid system
representing Player ownership of tiles from all over the world.

Earth 2 intends to deliver the first version (v1) of our own internally developed 1:1 scale 3D
Earth in 2022 which will mark an accomplishment achieved from focusing on and solving
the bigger issues related to creating a world size geolocational metaverse, first.

This v1 will officially become part of our Phase 2 scope to facilitate interactive game play,
with some team members referring to it internally as Phase 2.5, and this dev vlog,
displaying technology we developed late last year, provides a glimpse of the beginning while
showing just how versatile and realistic even Phase2, v1 will be.

In progression of our vision for The People’s Metaverse, Earth 2 is concurrently working on
improvements to aspects of the Earth 2 experience for our community by launching this
new dev vlog series on YouTube.

It should be noted that these vlogs will be confined to progress on developments which we
are comfortable with becoming public and for confidentiality reasons may not accurately
reflect what our team is actively working on at the point in time the vlog is published.

This series endeavours to bring the community updates via vlogs and while some of these
topics may reflect work-in-progress and open research (non-finished products), we’d still
​like to be transparent in sharing our approach and, where feasible, explain our progress and
 how we’ve chosen to address and implement many of the broader rendering, persistence
 and technical challenges that will ultimately enable various aspects of Earth 2’s metaverse
 to become a reality.

Like, comment and subscribe to the Earth 2 YouTube Channel to keep up to date with all
future dev vlogs.

New Leaderboard Data and other Updates go Live
Leaderboards provide interesting data on Player activity occurring inside of Earth 2 and we
intend to expand this data considerably over time. The most recent data release includes
information about High-Quality Jewels, Holobuildings, the Most Expensive Properties
Sold/Purchased and last but not least, the amount of Essence collectively claimed over the
past 24 hrs and the past 7 days (updates are still deploying and data will become available
over the next few hours).

We have also added the ability to view data per country, per continent, per associated flag,
per associated flag continent and in the case of High-Quality Jewels, per Player.

Occasionally, data we share may be relevant to future game play or strategies, as may be the
case with the 24hr and 7 day Essence production Leaderboard. We are conscientious about
Player privacy and have added an opt-in option for displaying a username on the High-
Quality Jewels Leaderboard and it is our intention to make this option available on some
future Leaderboard data releases as well.

To view a list of recent updates we have deployed such as easier identification of Mentars
on properties, public display of Essence remaining on a property, removal of the re-captcha
function and much more, please check out our Updates history page at :

https://earth2.io/updates



Dev Vlog #2 looks at Earth 2 Building Tech
March 25, 2022, Sydney

Earth 2 is excited to share the second video of our new Dev Vlog series showcasing the first
EcoSim building, the Water Processor, in its Phase 2 form.

Initial showcases will focus on buildings being visually represented in their Phase 2 model
format pertinent to the Earth 2 EcoSim, but we can confirm, with much excitement, that
over time our showcases will proceed to reveal other buildings such as houses, shops, sky
scrapers, transportation stations, educational facilities, marketplaces, social hubs, vehicles
and more.

Our technical team have been working on specialised, custom technology that will not only
allow us to procedurally load and stream these buildings as 3D objects inside our massive
​1:1 scale digital replication of the planet Earth, but importantly allow for this to be done at
 lightning speed and support significant Player customisation.

These specialised 3D object will using our internally developed custom shader system that
will provide Earth 2 Players with an incredible amount of surface customisation on objects
they own. Our solution not only accommodates for the colouration adjustment on numerous
visual components but goes further by supporting the alteration of surface types such as
metalic or dielectric material and even further by providing controls for surface shininess.

This solution will give our Players creative control over how each building is visually
represented on their property and our custom developed technology will support tens of
thousands of different buildings with each one having thousands of possible variations in
appearance.

Earth 2 is building technology that will be applied not only to our customised 3D models but
also to our open world terrain engine, demonstrating our heavy focus on developing a
solution that will stream millions of 3D objects, resulting in an aesthetically consistent
world that can uniquely support the streaming of this extensive variety of Player customised
3D objects.

We want our system to become the nucleus for connecting Players to an unimaginable
number of experiences both inside and outside of Earth 2.

Thank you for reading and please stay tuned for further dev vlogs on other Phase 2
buildings including information about how they will be constructed, what they produce,
what purpose they serve.



Earth2Day & Active Player Essence Rewards
April 23, 2022, Sydney

The Acknowledgement of Earth Day and the introduction of Earth 2 Day marked with
Essence rewards for Active Players

We hope all is well and we’d like to wish everyone a Happy Earth Day, 2022.

Earth Day was first proposed as a day where we, as its inhabitants, would honour the Earth
and the concept of peace. This notion was developed into a calendar event and duly named
“Earth Day” by Gaylord Nelson and Denis Hayes, the latter being directly responsible for
expanding the event beyond its original idea which would lead to the largest single day
protest in human history involving over 20 million people on its inauguration.

52 years on and this day continues to serve as an annual reminder of our obligation to
protect our environment, restore damaged ecosystems, live a more sustainable life and
much more. Remaining vigilant across these objectives returns a positive outlook not only
for humanity, but for all living inhabitants of our planet, Earth.
​Earth 2 has long term goals to provide assistance back to Earth 1 across numerous
 noteworthy causes including humanitarian, environmental, educational and more. We often
 refer to this as our E24E1 initiative.

Our commitment to building our own 1:1 scale digital replication of the planet Earth
provides Earth 2 with the opportunity to propagate visually influential 3D environments to
create awareness on various issues, including those related to the environment. Over time
we plan to leverage on this opportunity to drive awareness for important relevant global
causes.

As a reminder of this goal our team would like to reserve a day each year for Earth 2 and its
community to review the effectiveness of support we are directing back to help Earth 1,
how we are utilising our digital world to raise awareness for relevant issues and how we
could improve all such initiatives moving forward.

The day following Earth Day makes the most sense for this day as Earth 2 was made in the
image of Earth. Therefore we would like to reserve April 23rd for Earth2Day moving
forward. By #Earth2Day 2023 we aim to have steady #E24E1 initiatives in place and in
turn have something noteworthy to celebrate on this new day.

To mark the beginning of Earth2Day we will be rewarding all active Earth 2 Players with x3
the Essence they successfully transformed over the 22nd and the 23rd of April. The 22nd
being more of a retroactive reward to those who are regularly transforming their Essence
and the 23rd being for those who are keeping up to date with our announcements, such as
this one.

For Players who transform 0-3 Essence over these two days, you will receive the balance to a
total of 10 Essence as a bonus (i.e if you transform 3 Essence then your bonus will be 3×3= 9
+ 1 extra to make 10. If you transform 0 then your bonus will be 0x0=0 + 10 to make 10)
Thereby rewarding all who acknowledge the commencement of Earth2Day.

Rewards will be added to Player accounts on or before the 3rd of May, 2022 and we expect
the bonus to be somewhere between 500,000 to 700,000 Essence in total.

As a final memento of the first Earth2Day and Earth Day alike, we thought it fitting to share
the beauty of our planet Earth in the form of a short video using our digital Earth, the WIP
E2V1, spinning 4 looped rotations.

Thank you for your ongoing support and please stay tuned for further updates including the
next dev vlogs covering the Lignator followed by the Research Lab and more.


Earth 2 Announces Strategic Partnership with R/GA
May 7, 2022, Sydney Australia – Metaverse platform Earth 2, a futuristic concept for a
geolocational 1:1 scale second Earth, is excited to officially announce a strategic partnership
​with the internationally recognised, award winning, innovation and design-driven global
 company R/GA.

The R/GA Singapore partnership will integrate product strategy, experience design, product
design, and web and mobile build into Earth 2. In addition, R/GA Singapore will work
closely with Earth 2 in the coming months to refresh the Earth 2 brand via the website to
help the wider public better understand the Earth 2 vision and provide a great user
experience for the Earth 2 app.

“It’s exciting to be working with a visionary like Shane. We look forward to bringing our
expertise in Brand, Design & Technology, and Communications to Earth 2.” – Dot Peng, VP
Managing Director, R/GA

Earth 2’s long term vision of creating “the People’s Metaverse” naturally aligned with
R/GA’s ongoing commitment to “Designing a More Human Future” and this partnership
allowed R/GA to tackle those challenges from multiple angles, leveraging the power of
creativity and applying a human-centric approach to the Earth 2 platform.

“The vision of building the people’s metaverse and the possibilities of a true 1:1 earth size
replica are mind blowing. R/GA got in to make this potential accessible for the wider public
and to create long term value-add for Earth 2’s players. We’re electrified to design human
opportunities that connect our real Earth with its holo counterpart of the future!” – Joschka
Wolf, Group Creative Director Experience Design, R/GA

Earth 2 boasts the largest and most diversified registry of virtual real estate in the world
and is quickly approaching a staggering 100,000,000 Tier 1 and Tier 2 virtual land tiles
owned by hundreds of thousands of people from all corners of the world.

Beginning with the launch of Essence, its official utility token in Q3 this year, Earth 2’s
commitment to broadly decentralise key parts of its large centralised platform means that
alignment with the right strategic partners is more important than ever.

“R/GA’s reputation and achievements speak for themselves and a firm like R/GA not only
know how to design and build products but also how to launch them and create market
awareness. We were so impressed with R/GA’s early work and professionalism that we
entrusted Dot and her amazing team with reviewing and improving the design,
development and launch of our upcoming Social Media platform later in 2022. It is beyond
exciting to have such a talented and experienced group focusing on core improvements
across multiple facets of the Earth 2 Metaverse.” – Shane Isaac, Earth 2 CEOThe Earth 2
Social Media platform is one of the premier products Earth 2 has scheduled for public
release in 2022 and R/GA has the experience, knowledge and technical know-how to
successfully design, build and launch such an influential product.

“Very excited to work with Shane and his team on an ambitious project like Earth2. We’re
passionate about brand, and bringing it to life across multiple platforms is something we
look forward to doing.”- Rollen Gomes, Technology Director, R/GA
​This strategic partnership will refine the Earth 2 brand allowing it to connect the broader

public while creating a truly new experience for Players allowing them to communicate,
create and collaborate in the Earth 2 Metaverse and beyond.

About R/GA

R/GA is an innovation and design-driven global company. We help brands and businesses
define, connect with, and create more human futures. Our work spans innovation
consulting, org design, brand design, experience design, and marketing communications.
R/GA is part of The Interpublic Group of Companies (NYSE:IPG), one of the world’s largest
advertising and marketing services organizations, and has more than 1600 employees
globally, with 15 offices across the United States, Europe, South America, and Asia-Pacific


Resource Heatmap & Fractions of Essence
May 20, 2022,

Dear Earth 2 Players,

We hope all is well. We’re excited to announce that the Gold and Oil Resource Heatmap will
go live over the next 24 hours! While the first release of official resource locations on Earth
2 is a milestone to celebrate, there are some important things to consider so we would
highly suggest reading and re-reading the information below very carefully.

Gold and Oil lean toward the rarer types of resources that will initially be available for
utilisation in Earth 2. Both, in their own way and depending on the purpose, will be
required in varying quantities for constructing and supporting more advanced technologies,
products and devices. In lower quantities they may also be required in other areas of the
EcoSim.

The purpose of Essence, Resources, the EcoSim and more is for Earth 2 to provide an
interesting economic foundation for Players to create and build on Earth 2 through activity
and play. Value of things like Essence, Resources, Raw Materials and such should be
considered as speculative at this stage.

We anticipate that eager and proactive Players will use this new feature to influence their
Jewel crafting, trading, and slotting. In particular, Players will be able to begin formulating
gameplay strategies, such as optimising how they will slot jewels, the specific
combinations, accumulate certain types of Jewels through crafting or user-to-user trading,
collaborate with other players as part of a Megacity, and incorporate holobuildings on their
property/ies, all based on the Resources Heatmap.

We congratulate property owners who have detected Gold or Oil on their property in this
initial Resource Heatmap release and we Look forward to releasing more resource datasets
over coming weeks.
​Essence Fractions are Coming Soon!

The tracking and transformation of E-ther into fractions of Essence is a significant update to
how E-ther is claimed and transformed moving forward. This new feature will allow Players
to monitor the detailed progression of each transformation of E-ther into Essence and will
immediately be more useful and beneficial for smaller property owners, especially as
Essence becomes more and more difficult to produce.

We expect Essence Fractions to go live by May 31, 2022 but have an important message we
wanted to convey at least one week before this update is rolled out to the public.

Please read the following message very carefully :

We have noticed that many Players progressively ‘collect’ their E-ther, saving it up over time
to use at once in a larger conversion. We realise there are, and will continue to be, many
different types of strategies Players will test and utilise on Earth 2. Strategies that may or
may not benefit the Player, but this is all part of what we want our Metaverse to become.

If you are a Player who saves your E-ther to convert into Essence, we would like to officially
forewarn you that before the Essence fraction update goes live, we will need to
automatically transform all E-ther balances into Essence for ALL PLAYERS. This should not
alter the normal transformation you have been experiencing to date, however, we realise
some Players may just wish to manually transform their saved up E-ther before we do it
automatically.

If we plan for this automatic transformation to happen earlier we will release an

announcement notifying the community to please keep an eye out for updates video our
Discord, Facebook and Twitter social channels. Otherwise, you can expect the automatic
transformation to be executed the 24 hours before 8am UTC, May 31, 2022.

This update to introduce fractions of Essence will not see a reduction to the current Essence
transformation rates.

For all the latest developments on Earth 2, be sure to follow our Discord, Facebook and
Twitter and check our News and Updates page regularly.Thank you for ongoing
involvement and support of the Earth 2 project and we look forward to releasing more
updates soon.



Earth 2 passes 100 Million tile sales, Iron Ore Heatmap Release & more
June 9, 2022 – Sydney, Australia – On the 2nd of June, 2022, Earth 2 officially sold its
100,000,000th tile!! This works out the be an average of over 1,000,000 tiles per week!
These are some very powerful figures as the Essence token launch edges closer in Q3, 2022.
​“This is a monumental achievement for Earth 2! Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine
 that we would be sitting in this position only a year and a half after launching. I honestly
 believed that it would have taken 18 months before seeing any traction, let alone acquire
 the success that we have. I am truly humbled by the incredible amount of support our
 project has received”, said Shane Isaac, CEO and Founder of Earth 2. “Whether you agree or
 disagree with Earth 2’s goals and ambitions, you cannot argue with Earth 2’s success”.

“Our success to date provides us with a unique opportunity to build something that is not
influenced by corporate money”, Shane went on to say. “We enjoy a very strong community
who share our vision and want to be part of the journey each step of the way. Although our
journey will be long, our goal is to make it as interesting and as engaging as possible for our
community, as we gradually build toward bigger things. We’re particularly excited about
releases we have planned over the next 12 months which will really start to shape Earth 2
and will hopefully start to see the patience and hard work that takes place in the
background become more apparent.”

Earth 2 had previously anticipated reaching 100,000,000 tile sales in late July 2022, and was
planning a special release for early August to celebrate. This was to coincide with a
marketing awareness campaign planned in conjunction with the much-anticipated launch of
Earth 2’s Essence token. However, the 100 millionth tile sale occurred much earlier than
expected and due to the constant high workload on Earth 2 team members, time to create
and plan a new celebration befitting the occasion was not possible.

This special moment will not, however, be put aside completely. In recognition of this great
milestone, there will be a reward for the lucky Player who purchased the 100,000,000th tile,
and the Player’s Username, along with the prize, will be confirmed in our next
announcement. In the meantime, Shane will be running a few small competitions from his
personal Twitter account over the next couple of weeks. Details of the competitions will be
explained via his twitter account over the course of the next week but all participants must
at least have a free Earth 2 account to receive any prizes.

IRON ORE HEATMAP

The Iron Ore heatmap will be released over the next 48 hours as part of Earth 2’s
progression toward the full release of resource locations and the EcoSim. Players are
reminded that if a property does not appear to have a resource in the initial release, this
does not mean the property will not show up on progressive releases of the heatmap
showing less concentrated areas. All Players are also reminded that the Earth 2 Player
Resource Validation (E2PRV) system will enable Players and the community to further
validate properties that should contain a particular resource, a feature that is anticipated to
go live later this month.

Players will be urged to make resource validation submissions as soon as possible once
E2PRV is deployed to avoid missing Essence bonuses for automatic validations on other
properties that may be in close proximity to the first submissions the Earth 2 team
​approves. For this reason, we are considering a 2-3 week grace period before submission
 approvals begin.

COUNTRY COUNTDOWNS AND MENTARS

Earth 2 will trial a short countdown on the next country release for the purpose of testing
some server updates but also to allow Players the chance to plan ahead and potentially
purchase new tiles at the new country rate starting at E$0.10 per tile. This countdown will
be broadcasted on the Earth 2 landing page. Results will be reviewed by the team, including
possible exploitations, after which time a decision will be made whether countdowns will
continue.

A change to how Mentars are constructed is coming. The new method will mean Players will
no longer need to login 7 times over 14 days to complete tasks for building their Mentar but
will also mean that all future properties will no longer automatically receive pre-
constructed Mentars on them.

In the near future, Players will need to construct Mentars individually on each property and
will not be able to purchase Mentars in E$ as Earth 2 will be removing the in-game purchase
option.

Players who do not yet have Mentars on their property are urged to complete the current 7
day login challenge to receive Mentars on all existing properties for free before this new
update comes into place over coming weeks.

Earth 2 will also be running a promotion where new land purchased in new country
openings will receive a Mentar, updated periodically, so long as the first step to constructing
the Mentar has been taken. This promotion will be beneficial for new Players allowing them
to start collecting and transforming E-ther faster. More details about this promotion be
released in a future announcement.

EGG HUNT UPDATE

The final winners list for Egg 14 was finalised today and the initial winners lists for Eggs 15
and 16 are now open for challenges over the next 5 days. Players are reminded that the 5
day challenge period is adhered to strictly and time between the end of the challenge period
and the posting of the final winners list is used to process the challenges made within the
challenge period only.
Players should also note that sharing the location of a hidden Egg on any social channel,
including Discord constitutes a violation of the Egg Hunt rules, especially when the list of
winners has not been announced. Congratulations to the winner of Egg 14 and good luck to
all participants for Egg 15 and 16.

https://earth2.io/news/winners-runners-up-of-the-earth2egghunt2022
​* a note about the concept artwork. The Earth 2 artist team have created a number of
 varying concept art pieces and mood drawings to help with future visualisation, planning
 and design of environments, 3D models and more. We share one such image here to
 celebrate the 100,000,000 tile sales on the Earth 2 platform.



Ongoing Weekly Countdowns for Mentar Giveaways And New Country
Releases!
July 11th – Sydney, Australia – After recently achieving an incredible milestone of 100
million tiles sold, Earth 2 will trial public countdowns, starting with not one, but two
countdowns, every week over the next couple of months.

The first countdown will trigger the opening of a new country, while the second countdown
will gift instant Mentars in the relevant country to any Players who have at least started the
Mentar’s Quest on their Earth 2 Player account.

Since the Dubai countdown, Earth 2 has randomly released new countries without any
public notice and many Players understandably found it difficult to schedule their
involvement. Countdowns will remove that level of uncertainty and provide new Players
with an opportunity to secure land at the highly desirable entry price of E$0.10.

The countdowns will appear shortly on the Earth 2 landing page. We would also remind
Players that a total limit of 750 tiles a day will still apply per Player over the first 48 hours
post new country releases.

Weekly Mentar Giveaway

Every week, we will be randomly selecting a special country for the Mentar giveaway. All
you have to do is start the Mentar building process on your property in that country before
the countdown ends and you will be gifted an instant Mentar for each Mentar-less property
you own inside the selected country. Make sure to stay tuned for announcements on our
socials to see if your property is in one of the lucky countries of the week!

New Lands, New Opportunities

Countdowns for new country releases will be posted every week until there are no more
new countries remaining. Tiles in the new country will be up for grabs starting at E$0.10
per tile.

As a bonus for new Players, any Player who purchases land within the first 6 days of a new
country release, and at least starts their Mentar quest, will receive free Mentars daily on
those new properties within the relevant country release, up until the 7th day from
release.

This means new Players will be able to start claiming E-ther and transforming it to Essence
for free, and much faster than usual. Essence will become a key digital utility currency
​inside of Earth 2 and will be launching as an official utility token on external trading
 exchanges later this year.

This is a brilliant opportunity for new Players who have been following Earth 2- you don’t
have to be a “whale” to get involved when tile prices start at just E$0.10! Keep an eye out
for upcoming country release announcements, so you can start detecting E-ther and
transform it into Essence before our upcoming official token launch!

Player Resource Validation on the Doorstep

E2PRV (Earth 2 Player Resource Validation) is a system where Players can submit Claims for
improved Resource distribution, and back other Claims in the community by staking
Essence for a bonus reward when a Claim is validated. Put simply – if your Property should
be producing a type or more of a particular Resource, submit a Claim! If you want to help
another Player improve Resource distribution on their land, then put down some of your
own Essence to improve their chances, and get rewarded for it too! Help your neighbors and
they might just help you right back. If you are part of a Megacity, get everyone involved and
share in the rewards!
About Earth 2

Earth 2® is a futuristic concept for a second earth; a metaverse, between virtual and
physical reality in which real-world geolocations correspond to user generated digital
virtual environments. These environments can be owned, bought, sold, and in the near
future deeply customized.

Twitter | Reddit | Discord | Instagram | Facebook | LinkedIn

A Quick Refresher on Mentars

What is a Mentar?

New to the world of Earth 2? We’ve got you covered. The Mentar is an essential building
responsible for detecting E-ther as it evaporates from your land, and transforming it into
Essence.

Mentars can also be slotted with different jewels to enhance Resource or E-ther production
on your Property.

What is the Mentar’s Quest ? (How to build a Mentar)

The Mentar’s Quest is a Player’s quest to populate their property/ies with Mentars for the
purpose of detecting E-ther and transforming it into Essence. Currently, Players are
required to login frequently, over a period of 14 days, in order to complete the Mentar
building process.
​Player Resource Validation approvals are about to begin!
 August 12, 2022 – Sydney, Australia – It has been just over 3 weeks since we launched the
 Earth 2 Player Resource Validation system (“E2PRV”) and we have already received over
 9,000 submitted claims with a combined staked Essence total over 7.6 million so far! That’s
 over 250,000 times players have staked to support claims which averages out to 8 stakes
 per minute since the launch of this feature!

The amount of research and thought put into claims has been outstanding and it’s great to
see the Earth 2 player community taking advantage of this unique opportunity to double
their Essence. But be warned, the 100% reward* for staking successful claims will be
reduced over the coming weeks.

*All existing claims up until that date is announced will retain the possibility of a 100%
staking reward.

FINAL APPROVALS ARE ABOUT TO BEGIN!!

To everyone who has made a Player Resource Validation claim, good news – the CAT
(Claims Approval Team) is ready to start final approvals for the first claims with the first
batch of approvals being released as soon as today!

We are not committing to any set schedule for releasing final batch approvals for claims, in
some cases it may be daily or weekly, but you can expect some form of consistency around
those time frames to start from next week.

The final approval involves steps that are taken following internally pre-approved claims.
These steps include utilising a software solution we built that allows us to deploy
predetermined or free hand shapes onto an internal global map essentially casting a net to
approve the relevant resource in that area. Our system then cross references our database
of over 100,000,000 tiles, comparing coordinates for the newly designated resource zone
and assigning any properties within that zone the approved resource. Our system is also
automated to check any existing claims that fall within this net to instantly grant approval
to that claim if the resource claim matches the resource approval for the net area.

This may sound simple, but building it was quite complicated, especially for it to work
effectively with mass data on a scale as large as the planet’s surface, so we appreciate your
patience while we work with this relatively new system and process the claims.

“We’re very excited about the future of this system. It’s being used to facilitate manual
pinpoint deployment of resource locations now, but in the future will be used for
deployment of other interesting game mechanics, even things like loot areas, NPC spawning
points, monsters, permit areas, safe zones, and that’s just a few to get the mind flowing”,
said Shane Isaac, CEO and Founder of Earth 2. “When we think about the size of the planet’s
surface and the fact we can set tiny radiuses of even a few meters in any shape imaginable,
this system really does allow us to literally drop miniscule pinpoints inside a massive
​environment. I’m really excited about the different ways will utilise this system in the
 future.”

SMALL PLAYERS DON’T MISS OUT!

We understand that there is fierce competition to stake on claims and many strong claims
only appear for a few seconds. We suggest collaborating with other players to increase your
chances of getting in.

For all you players new to the system, why not jump into our discord and team up with
some of our veteran E2 pioneers who can help get your first PRV claims and stakes
completed and start increasing your Essence balance? This system was built keeping
smaller players in mind and we have seen some players with as little as 3 Essence already
quadruple their balance during the test approval phase alone. Even if you only own a few
Essence, you can still participate!

REMEMBER – once you stake your Essence and start a claim, if the claim is unsuccessful you
will lose your Essence, so make sure you’re confident in making a PRV before starting the
process.

GUIDELINES ON HOW TO SUBMIT A SUCCESSFUL CLAIM

We’ve had a few cases of a minority of players not providing enough evidence to go along
with their claims. Below is a handy table showing the kind of evidence we like to see from
you, that ultimately helps us to approve the resources you’re claiming on your tiles faster.

Types of evidence:

(S) = Supplementary – evidence that can support a claim but not used solely to make one

REPORTING A CLAIM

Players who abuse the report function by either maliciously targeting or trolling other
players, will be sent an official warning. If they continue to negligently report claims, they
will risk their account being frozen. Players who have repeatedly offended to date have
already been identified and should consider this message their first warning.

We also understand that some of our players may have been well-intentioned in their
reporting of claims in an effort to clear up the system of invalid claims. However, this
actually further slows down the process. The reporting function is strictly to be used for
claims which contain spam, offensive and/or malicious content only.

Reporting claims without a valid reason ruins the experience for other players and hides
relevant information for a player to decide whether they should back a claim. This is why
we have taken a strong stance on this.

REPORTS OF BOT USE ON STAKING FOR CLAIMS
​We are aware of reports from the community that a number of Players have spent time
 developing bots for staking Essence on Player Resource Validation Claims. We will be
 investigating these claims and identifying accounts who have potentially been using bots to
 stake their Essence quickly. We suggest that any Players using bots to stake Essence cease
 to use them immediately.

Any accounts found using bots to stake Essence after Saturday the 13th of August at 6pm
(UTC), will run the risk of losing their staked Essence and possibly having their account
frozen. We will also be looking at accounts who may have excessively abused the use of
bots to stake Essence to date.

If you are using a bot to stake Essence and you don’t want to face penalties, stop using it
immediately.

Please play fair.

GOOD LUCK!

As always we appreciate your feedback and patience as we move through these claims, if
you have any comments or questions you can either hit us up on Twitter directly, respond to
this announcement on our various socials or jump into the discord where members of the
team and other community can help you out.

Sincerely, Earth 2


A Well-Earned Break For Stakers: Earth 2 to Put A Pause On Validation
Claims
13 October, 2022 – Sydney, Australia – To say the past 3 months has been anything less than
intense for Players participating in the Earth 2 Resource Validation System would be a
massive understatement. In the past we promised to provide a minimum of 3 months for
Players to create Resource Validation Claims and we have now almost fulfilled that promise.

Just shy of 3 months ago, we released the first version of our player validation and Essence
staking system; the E2PRV (Earth 2 Player Resource Validation). Since then, players have
submitted over 56,045 claims for resource validation on their properties and almost half of
these claims have already been processed by the CAT.

PLAYER VALIDATION SYSTEM TO BE PAUSED

Some Players, in particular, have dedicated an enormous amount of their time to this E2PRV
Essence staking opportunity, with reports of some Players going as far as taking annual
leave from work to focus on staking! We considered leaving the claim system open for a little
longer than our 3 month promise, however, the health and well-being of our Players is
important to us and we realised many of those participating have done so consistently with
little to no rest.
​Therefore, we will be pausing the ability to create claims at a random time during Monday
 the 17th of October, 2022 until further notice. This slight extension will provide Players
 with one final weekend to submit claims under the current Essence bonus system. We trust
 this pause will give Players the opportunity to take a well-earned break after 3 months of
 hectic staking.

Well done to Players who spent a great deal of their time participating. Rest soundly
knowing you are not missing out on any staking opportunities, at least for the next little
while. The 100% and 50% Essence rewards that were up for grabs over the past 3 months
have been very unique and it is unlikely we will ever see such Essence rewards for future
staking opportunities again, most certainly not over an extended period, as has been the
case these past 3 months. This truly was a unique and special staking opportunity that we
believe many will reminisce about in the future.

There are plans to reopen our validation system at some point in the future, but you can
expect key changes such as rewards, types of claims or uses, and adjustments to the
approval guidelines which have been quite lenient for the initial E2PRV. Any changes will be
announced prior to the reopening of the validation system.

We are aware that some Players, especially those with larger accounts, may not have been
able to validate resources for all of their properties, even though we made adjustments
based on community feedback. It is our plan to allow some additional Resource Validation
opportunities later on, under a new set of rules and a new, significantly lower, reward
system. In the meantime, Players should focus on enjoying their break from creating claims
and staking Essence, as the CAT continues to process and evaluate the remaining active
claims when the paws is in place.

We thank all our Players for their participation and dedication to the E2PRV system thus
far. You have demonstrated your strength as a community to collaborate with and support
each other, which was especially evident with those who worked closely together. Having
said that, many solo stakers were also able to stake hundreds of thousands of Essence
collectively. Drop into our Discord if you’d like to talk to a few!

Your collective utilisation of the E2PRV system to validate and stake Essence has helped to
inform our next steps towards modifying and expanding the system to encompass other
areas of Earth 2, as has been the plan from the very beginning. We can’t wait for you to see
what other opportunities this expanded validation system brings to Earth 2 Players over
time.

INTERESTING E2PRV STATS TO DATE

Over 2,100,000 individual stakes have been made (including Active, Approved & Player
deleted) – that’s over 23,500 unique / individual stakes per day on average!
Over 26,000 Claims have been reviewed and processed by the CAT and our Claim Approvals
System
​Over 58,000,000 Essence has been utilised (used) by Players for the purpose of staking.

From which over 31,000,000 Essence is actively staked or locked up, pending approval or
rejection.

To date, more than 27,000,000 Essence has been earned by Players who staked Essence on
successfully approved claims.

There is a total of 124,037,593.07 Essence in circulation on the Earth 2 Platform today (this
does NOT include Essence actively staked).

Interesting Player Facts:

The Top 10 Players who submitted the greatest number of claims (some of the Players you
stakers should be thanking!) are:

The Top 10 Countries for claims submitted were:

The first Players to receive successful claims for each resource type were:




UPDATE ON MENTAR QUESTS AND NEW COUNTRY RELEASES

Our weekly Mentar gifting event has been extremely successful since kicking off in July, with
24,746 Mentars gifted to 18,802 unique players! While the event has helped these players to
gain instant Mentars on their properties throughout Spain, Mexico, Chad, France, Egypt,
Canada, Singapore, Ireland, New Zealand, Germany, Australia and the Netherlands, we have
brought an end to this event in preparation for the upcoming PvP + EcoSim-intro feature.

We will be sharing more details soon, but until then, this is a friendly reminder to collect
your E-ther!

We have not forgotten about the 5 remaining countries left to open: Turkmenistan, Algeria,
Paraguay, Hong Kong, and Saudi Arabia. We will be continuing to open these progressively,
with the next release set for November.

Along with more updates on the Earth 2 validation system, our birthday month is fast
approaching and we will be sharing more news on our project during that time. If you

haven’t already, be sure to keep updated by following us on socials!


Earth 2 Turns 2!
November 2, 2022 – Sydney, Australia – The month of November 2022, marks the second
anniversary of the Earth 2 project and to kick start the birthday month, we have the
following message from our CEO, Shane Isaac which includes a brief recap of the past 12
months and then what to expect throughout November and beyond:
​Earth 2 is only in its second year of what will inevitably become an ongoing, multi-year
 commitment to achieve the dreams and goals we officially set out to achieve just 2 years
 ago.

While we understand that some of our supporters believe the project is not moving as fast
as they would like, and with much of the progress being internal, it is inevitable things will
appear or feel slow at times. We do appreciate the patience and support from each and
every one of you and while we are not claiming to have released any jaw dropping feature
just yet, it is still noteworthy to point out that over the past 12 months we can still say we
have made some clearly visible progress, such as:(Releases over the past 12 months)

In addition to the above feature releases, there were also many other changes, bugs fixes,
optimisations and more – for a more precise list, please visit https://earth2.io/updates .

Moreover, it has not only been feature releases providing new details about Earth 2 over the
past year. There have also been numerous written and visual releases which revealed
interesting information about various progress and plans for Earth 2, all of which were
unknown 12 months ago, some examples being :(Other progress over the past 12 months)
In isolation over a 12 month period, these features, updates, and changes may not seem like
much, and to some they may be regarded as unacceptable progress, but when summarised
together it is clear to see the extent of the progress over the past year, much of which was
shared with the community.

Notably, this list does not include the most recent few months where we have made
significant advancements with E2V1 technology and also begun to build some of our first
backend engines for the initial game mechanic systems which will pivot into E2V1 over
time. It also excludes other work carried out by the Earth 2 team internally each and every
week of the year.

All in all, for another challenging year where we are still finding our feet and our groove,
especially with finding the right talent and right people for the Earth 2 project, not to
mention having to change key team members at critical times, our team should be proud of
the effort and results they have made.

What To Expect For The 2022 Earth 2 Anniversary Month
Looking back at our first anniversary month in November, 2021, there were two
announcements loosely placed around updates. We certainly wanted to improve on that this
year and although we still have an intense internal schedule of work, this year should be a
clear improvement and will provide interesting written and visual updates about Earth
2. It will also include a couple of key updates to our website.

The list below provides the Earth 2 Community with an outline on what to expect
throughout this month, with each item scheduled to provide additional information when
that relevant announcement is made. We will not be committing to exact times or dates for
each item below, apart from the E2V1 video which will certainly be the final announcement
​at the end of the month. Therefore, it is entirely possible that all of the below
 announcements or releases may occur in the final week of November, so please manage
 patience and expectations over the course of November as we work hard to share these
 exciting updates with you, your mind and body will thank you for avoiding unnecessary
 stress and disappointment.

The core theme for our 2nd Anniversary month is the revealing and information about near
future key game mechanics, what they will look like and how they will function. Building a
gamified platform like Earth 2 is a 5-7 year commitment from even an experienced and
established game studio. While we certainly do not claim to be a well-known, established
game studio, we embrace this challenge and long term commitment and feel our team is
heading in the right direction. We expect to improve year on year, which we feel is already
evident.

The list below is only meant to serve as a summary, more details on each item will be
released throughout the month.


GAME MECHANICS

Over the course of the next month we want to share key details about four of the first core
game mechanics for Earth 2. These core game mechanics are special as they will first
function on the Earth 2 website, but have been designed and will be built in a way that
allows it to gradually migrate into E2V1, starting with the visual representation of actions
and activities initiated on the website and then tracked and displayed inside E2V1. Players
can expect this migration to begin at some stage next year while our current focus is to have
the website version stable and balanced.

The core game mechanics we will cover this month will be related to Droids, Raiding,
Civilians and Contracts, with further details to come on each of these at the time the
relevant announcement is made.

RAIDING – 1st ITERATION

This will mark the first release of the new Raiding feature on the Earth 2 website. Our team
is pushing hard to have this released by the end of November, or as close to that date as
possible. There are numerous unforeseen factors that may delay this release, but for now,
we are following this timeline.

Around the same time Raiding is released, we will see the first new utility be added to
Jewels. 6 existing, yet to be revealed Tier 3 Crafted Jewels will be the first group to receive
the initial utility boost for Raiding. This will introduce several unique slotting strategies
enabling the skilled player to potentially outperform their peers.
NEW E2V1 FOOTAGE

We have new and exciting updates to share showing some of the progress our team has
made with E2V1. As always, the footage will be in game and rendered in real time,
​demonstrating just how versatile and powerful our engine is. We don’t want to spoil the
 surprises, but we will be showing progress with our Close Up Terrain Engine working in
 real time together with our previously showcased Distant Terrain Engine.

For absolute clarity, while we plan to show some pretty impressive footage, we will be
holding back on the full demonstration of certain elements to reserve them for release
closer to the Essence Token launch. We feel this is a good balance between showing
progress while saving the most excitement for that key future date. Having said that, there
may be some teasers you can look forward to!

U2U HOLOBUILDING TRADING SYSTEM V1.1

The final parts of the U2U HB Trading System update v1.1 will also be released this month,
which includes some exciting updates like ongoing Royalties for content creators, Limited
Editions and more! Keep an eye out for more information to come on exactly what all the
updates mean for you and U2U trading on Earth 2!

NEW EARTH 2 LANDING PAGE

Another key release for this month will be the completely revamped website for the Earth 2
Landing pages. Possibly even more exciting than the new design itself, will be the updated
explanation, vision and presentation of information about Earth 2. There will be
information to fill in the gaps, as well as never-before revealed details tying it all together.

SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORM

Although the release for the Social Media Platform is running a little behind schedule and
will not be released this month, we still plan to release some little pieces of information, the
basic plan and maybe some sneak peeks at some of the general design this month.

100M TILE WINNER

We will be announcing the very lucky winner who purchased the 100 millionth tile on Earth
2! Not only is this lucky winner the owner of the 100 millionth tile sold from Earth 2, they
have also won a very special prize which will be revealed in the announcement!

OTHER SMALLER RELEASES

There may be a few other smaller, but very welcomed, updates being deployed together
with larger releases on the website over the next month and beyond. These would certainly
not be significant enough to be included in the birthday celebrations, but they do warrant a
mention as with the change of control over game design and more hands-on testing and
review of existing systems, we are finding places where improvements have been
overlooked. You will notice the first few of these updates on the property details page and
the Jewel slotting page.

WITHDRAWAL STATS
​Incredibly some people inside and outside of the Earth 2 community- predominantly
 outside- still falsely claim they cannot withdraw funds from Earth 2. We thought it might be
 a good opportunity to publish some official stats about withdrawal numbers during the
 celebration month.

COUNTRY RELEASES

We had originally intended to release multiple countries throughout this month’s
anniversary, however, we are not committing to this and it is unlikely there will be more
than one release. With the delay of the token launch we would like to provide more
opportunity to buy in on country releases between now and the official release.

AIR DROP

There has been some speculation circulating within the community about a potential air
drop this year. For absolute clarity, we do not have any airdrop scheduled, nor is it
something that should be expected on any regular basis. As we announced back in 2021,
the Essence Distribution Commitment (EDC) was a very special occurrence and similar
events should not be heavily anticipated. Our E2PRV system also provided a significant
opportunity for all Players to boost their Essence numbers and we feel for those who
missed out on that opportunity, the upcoming Game Mechanics we are working to release
will provide chances for those who want to put in the effort and remain active on the
platform.

So for now and in the foreseeable future, we are back to Essence being very scarce and hard
to come by, much like it was before staking. So logging in and collecting E-ther regularly
from your properties is the best thing a Player can do currently and is the only way to
increase your Essence balance right now.

TIER 3 LAND

There has also been talk about a potential Tier 3 land release, similar to how we released
Tier 2 land last year. While at this point in time we do have plans to release Tier 3 land in
the future, we do not have any plans for the short term release of Tier 3 land. If we released
Tier 3 land it would be to provide an affordable starting point for new Players and would
likely see an end to Tier 2 land sales with upgrades only being possible via Essence. Tier 3
land would also be significantly reduced in utility compared to Tier 2 land. We are not one
hundred percent committed to releasing Tier 3 land as there are many other factors we
need to consider before making such a decision. It is our main priority that if we release
Tier 3 land, it is for a very specific purpose. For now, we just wanted to make it clear that
Tier 3 land will not be released this birthday month

OTHER POTENTIAL SURPRISES
​There are a couple of additional surprises we are working on which we are not committing
 to directly. Depending on a few factors, these may or may not be released this month. At the
 very least, they are something you can look forward to in the upcoming future.

Thank you again for being involved in our project, for your ongoing support and we look
forward to enjoying this birthday month together, Earth 2!



Earth 2 Continues Support for Creators with U2U HB Trading v1.1 Update
11 November 2022 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 has demonstrated its ongoing support for
Creators on its platform with the new release of the User-to-User (U2U) HoloBlueprint (HB)
trading system v1.1!

HoloBuildings are Earth 2’s experiment of creating tools to facilitate User Generated
Content which then has a direct Utility in the game mechanics of our platform by allowing
resource storage. A HoloBuilding design is required before being placed on a property.
Players can either try to create a HoloBuilding design themselves or purchase one designed
by another Player from the Bazaar.

This updated version includes the introduction of Limited Edition HoloBuildings, the ability
to resell HoloBuildings, Royalties for original HB creators, shareable URLs and HB galleries.
These updates aim to improve the quality of User Generated Content trading on Earth 2,
with a direct focus on rewarding Players for listing and selling their creations inside the
Bazaar.

Since launching the initial v1.0 of U2U HB trading, we have seen over 45,000 U2U sales in
the Bazaar! Creators have been able to sell their creations for E$ (E$1 = $1USD) and either
withdraw their earnings out of Earth 2 to their credit card or bank account or use the E$ to
purchase other items and properties inside of Earth 2.

With the new addition of our Royalty system, Creators will be able to not only earn on the
initial sale, as they have been to date, but also on any subsequent resale of their original
creations.

Earth 2 has plans to expand this new trading system over time to include more than
HoloBuildings, meaning core U2U trading features we release now will be applied to more
digital assets and UGC traded on the same system in the future.

This update also includes some other improvements from the new game design team that
Earth 2 Players may find of interest, such as :

The new team will continue to make small improvements when time permits, and we hope
these ongoing small improvements help make like a little easier for the average Earth 2
Player. To see a full list, please check out https://earth2.io/updates
​The U2U HB v1.1 release will require historic creators to be migrated to the new v1.1
system and this will include a specific process involving various steps and down time on HB
trading in the Bazaar. We urge all Players to read and understand this process which is
listed toward the end of this article.

But first, read about the key details of each update below:

U2U HB TRADING V1.1:

Limited Edition HoloBuildings will provide Earth 2 HB creators with more control over how
many of their creations will enter circulation, meaning this feature allows HB creators to
dictate how many copies of their HoloBlueprint designs are available on Earth 2 as
HoloBuildings. What’s more, once a HoloBlueprint design is listed as a Limited Edition
design, the seller/listing Player is providing an assurance that they will not list that
Blueprint on the Bazaar again, as a separate listing. This is something Earth 2 Support will
monitor but we feel most genuine creators will respect these rules to maintain a good
reputation as a seller.

Limited Edition HoloBuildings will potentially increase value to HB creators for their unique
designs and add a collectable aspect for Players looking to purchase these creations. What’s
more, Players can make their properties stand out with these unique Limited Edition
HoloBuildings and in the future will also be able to use and show their HoloBuildings in
different ways.

To see HoloBuildings in 3D view, visit earth2.io/#thegrid, select Satellite->HoloBuildings.

Note: Limited Edition HoloBuildings will only be available for HoloBlueprints that have not
been traded on the Bazaar during v1.0.

Another important update to the HB trading system is the ability to relist a HoloBuilding
license on the Bazaar. Whether you have changed your mind, no longer need the particular
HoloBuilding for your designs, or simply like to collect and trade, Players can rest assured
that the HoloBuilding licenses they bought can be resold. Now with limited edition
HoloBuildings, Players will even be able to sell their unique HoloBuildings for a potential
profit!

Our new royalty system enables original HB creators to continue earning revenue from
their designs, long after their first sale. It ensures that creators who make unique HBs in
Earth 2 will be rewarded and reap ongoing benefits, not only from the first sale, but all
future resales of their products. This will encourage Earth 2 creators to create better and
high quality content if they expect to see strong resale figures for their creations.

Royalty rates are set at 3% of the sale price and cannot be less than $0.01. For
HoloBlueprint designs which were made from the original design of multiple creators, each
original creator will receive either 3% or an equal share of 12% total royalty if there are
more than 4 creations in the new HoloBlueprint design.
​To receive royalties from HoloBlueprint sales, a Player must be the original creator. A Player
 is considered an original creator if they designed and built a HoloBlueprint themselves. A
 Player who creates a new design completely or partially consisting of designs created by
 other creators, is not considered an original creator.

Shareable URLs let you promote your HoloBuildings anywhere on the internet! Market your
designs to the entire world through any avenue of your choice. Try it out – you can even
share your listings on our dedicated HB trading channel on our Discord!

The HB Profile Gallery allows Players to find all their original HoloBlueprint designs on
their Profile page! No need to open the HB editor or go to your Resources inventory, now
your Property and HoloBuilding assets can be found on your Profile page in an easy to view,
fully accessible gallery. Your HB gallery will only show you the HoloBlueprints created by
you. Once finding other Players on Earth 2 becomes more streamlined, you will be able to
show off your creations and other Players will be able to visit your profile to see your
original HoloBlueprint designs!

IMPORTANT STEPS for U2U HB v1.1 Deployment which includes a Bazaar Freeze

As many Players understand, the initial design of the U2U HB Trading System did not
facilitate Royalty payments, Limited Editions and other items listed above. Due to the
design of the system we were unfortunately unable to retroactively apply these features,
which also meant that existing eligible creations need to be migrated to the new system.

The determining factor for whether a creation is eligible to migrate to the new system is
mainly based on if that creation has previously been bought or sold to date.

The following criteria outlines which creations are eligible to migrate to the new trading
system, and subsequently receive Royalties from its future sales:

Furthermore, only creations that have never been sold or bought on the Bazaar during v1.0
will be eligible for listing as Limited Editions.

Instead of requesting creators manually update their creations for v1.1, our team has
developed an internal system that will automatically migrate eligible HoloBuilding and
Blueprint license listings, without Creators needing to lift a finger.

There are a few steps that will be involved during this migration so as a summary, we have
listed them below for your convenience :

Once the update is complete, the Bazaar will be unfrozen and Players will be able to begin
listing more creations. If you believe your HoloBuilding or Blueprint listing should qualify
for receiving royalties but it doesn’t appear to be enabled, please contact
https://support.earth2.io/ for assistance.

While these are still early days for our first iteration of sellable User-Generated Content
(UGC) trading on our platform, we are continuing to work on facilitating more possibilities
​for Players to play, create, trade and earn inside the Earth 2 Platform. These updates to our
 HB trading system precede a more involved and complicated trading system which will be
 expanded in the future.

Thank you for taking the time to read through this update and we look forward to
continuing on with our 2nd Anniversary Birthday month with more to come such as:




Decimalisation Update
22 November, 2022, Sydney Australia – Today Earth 2 deployed an update not only to
facilitate new game mechanics related to the upcoming Raiding feature, but also as a pre-
emptive adjustment for future spending scenarios for E-ther and Essence.

These adjustments will see E-ther receive two decimal points and Essence expand to 4
decimal points.

We’d like to share some details that Players may like to consider:

Another update that went live was the landing page country price ticker which displays the
cheapest available country prices. When you press on a country flag this will automatically
take you to the last area in that country where new tiles were purchased. We will be adding
an option in the future to allow Players to display different filtered results.

As always, if you have any issues with your account after a new update, please contact
support via https://support.earth2.io/ or reach out to one of our friendly Community
Managers on Discord https://discord.gg/earth2

Thank you

Related Articles

P2P Civilian Trading LIVE
September 19, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2® is pleased to officially announce P2P
Civilian trading which is now LIVE on the Bazaar! Civilians become the third major
tradeable EcoSim utility item on the Bazaar and the unique aesthetic and skills that come
with their achieved mastery levels make each of these First Edition […]

Jewel Bazaar Update, Jewels Bulk Buy & New Marketplace Filter
September 5, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Following the recent release of P2P Cydroid trading
on the Bazaar, the new-look Jewel Bazaar UI has also been updated to not only bring it in
line with the new design style on Earth 2 but to facilitate a better experience for Players
overall. In addition to their […]
​P2P Cydroid Trading NOW LIVE
 August 28, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to officially announce P2P Cydroid
 trading which is now LIVE on the Bazaar! Cydroids being sold via the Bazaar come fully
powered with 5 Essence so they are locked, loaded and ready to raid! This is a great
opportunity to trade their Cydroids for […]



E$10,000(USD) Reward for the 100m’th Tile Purchased + 700% increase in
P2P Jewel Sales
November 25, 2022 – Earth 2 has come a long way since launching in November, 2020, with
0 Players, 0 publicity and a few hundred dollars budgeted for advertisements. From then to
now we have become a team that spans across Europe, Australasia, the UK, Asia and
America, and earlier this year we sold our landmark 100 millionth tile!

And the Winner is ….!?

Without any form of public announcement or forewarning that there would be a reward for
the Player who purchased the 100,000,000th tile, this winner will be receiving a retroactive
reward in all regards, !

Without further ado, we would like to give a HUGE CONGRATULATIONS to:

Samjogo!

who has won E$10,000 – the largest single prize in Earth 2 history!

(E$1 – $1USD)

We’re not sure whether Samjogo will see this announcement, but once our accounting team
adds the credit over the next 24 hours, Samjogo will have 10,000 reasons to smile when
they see a little jump on their Earth 2 Player account balance!

We wanted to save this announcement for our 2nd anniversary month. We were under no
pressure to reward the purchaser of the 100 millionth tile, but whether big or small, we
enjoy rewarding Players that are active on our platform – so from the entire Earth 2 team,
we hope Samjogo enjoys this massive prize and manages to turn it into something even
bigger!

Fun fact: Samjogo changed their Player username so often, our concept art team stopped
updating it on the announcement image after the 4th occasion!

700% increase in P2P Jewel Sales since Raiding Deep Dive Video

There has been a 700% increase in Player to Player Jewel sales on the Bazaar since the
Raiding Deep Dive video was released earlier this week! The video confirmed that Jewels
would have further utility inside the Raiding game mechanics by way of slotting to boost
various attributes on Droids, and possibly more.
​We can verify that there will be at least 6 pre-existing Tier 3 Jewels set aside with the
 unique distinction of becoming the first Jewels used to boost Droids. If you are new to jewel
crafting, Tier 1 Jewels can be crafted into Tier 2 Jewels which can then be crafted into Tier 3
Jewels. It may be a strategy to hold onto your Tier 1 or Tier 2 Jewels before we release the
names and exact boosts of the 6 Tier 3 Jewels planned to boost Droids. There are currently a
total of 38 Tier 3 Jewels.

Update on E-ther and Jewel Spawn Rates

Our team is aware of a delayed rate in the spawning of E-ther and Jewels across most
properties. We are aiming to have all delayed E-ther and Jewels spawned over the next 24
hours. We would like to assure our Players that this is not a sudden reduction in spawn
rates, but an unforeseen delay issue when testing a new mechanic. We are working to
resolve the issue but there may be further delays over coming days. Please rest assured it
will not jeopardise or skip any E-ther or Jewels that Players would normally receive from
their properties, only delay it.


Over $19M USD in Withdrawals processed by Earth 2
30 November, 2022 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to announce it has officially
processed over $19M USD in E$ withdrawals as of November 26, 2022. This is an
outstanding achievement for a project that launched only 2 years earlier and has grown to
become the largest Virtual Land registry in the world.

Earth 2 allows people to buy, sell and trade virtual property based on real world
geolocations which can produce a variety of digital items, some of which have currently
utility now but will expand to have significantly more utility as the Earth 2 Platform
expands. This project experienced hypergrowth shortly after launching in November 2020,
when the initial startup team was only numbered at a few full-time employees who were far
from prepared for such unexpected growth. “Although we received a lot of public criticism,
the biggest priority for us during 2021 was to ensure Earth 2 Players were paid out for their
pending withdrawals which meant some other areas of progress across the project were not
managed to the best of our ability. Our team was too small and inexperienced to process the
backlog, so we employed multiple senior accountants along with support staff to help clear
the list”, said Shane Isaac, Founder and CEO of Earth 2. “It was not as simple as just paying
Players, we also needed to consider fraud, money laundering and a number of other
international monetary compliance issues. One of our solutions was to partner with Jumio (
https://www.jumio.com/ ) to ensure we complied with various KYC obligations that come
with paying real money out to people who trade digital goods on our platform across
different jurisdictions around the world. While processing KYC for Players came as an
additional cost to our business model, I was happy to absorb those costs and more if it
meant we could efficiently, and legally, pay out Players waiting for their withdrawals”.

Earth 2 has since paid over $323,708 USD ($480,421AUD) for processing KYC checks to
ensure we provide a safer and more compliant trading environment for our Players, but
​KYC is not the only cost associated with the withdrawal process. Earth 2 pays an average of
 $8.21USD ($12.90AUD) in fees for each Credit Card to Bank Withdrawal, $7.72USD
 ($12.14AUD) for each Earth 2 Virtual Credit Card withdrawal and a $21.72USD
 ($34.14AUD) average cost to process problematic withdrawal requests. These fees do not
 include staff salaries or other administrative steps involved in the withdrawal process.

In addition to the above fees, Earth 2 continues to pay over $20 for each Earth 2 Virtual
Credit Card setup, absorbing that cost to help Players who are unable to utilise other
withdrawal methods on our Platform, to get paid out successfully.

As of November 26, 2022, a total of $19,130,971.09 USD in withdrawals has been processed
for Earth 2 Players all over the world, comprising of:

Earth 2 now employs 3 full time senior accountants along with numerous support staff who
monitor withdrawals and Player trading transactions on the Earth 2 Platform for potential
fraud and money laundering.

As of today, and for the past number of months, the Earth 2 team is thrilled to confirm we
have had no significant backlog in Player withdrawals and our current withdrawals backlog
sits at *zero.

We stand by our efforts to provide our Players with legitimate and fast withdrawals from
Earth 2 and a compliant platform for Players to buy, sell and trade digital goods. We are
always looking to improve and will continue to do so for the benefit our community to
ensure continue to align with our Player-First ethos.

* does not represent Players currently awaiting the normal withdrawal period which varies

depending on the method used



Earth 2 Birthday Wrap-Up but Celebrations to Continue
December 1, 2022 – Sydney Australia – How quickly our birthday month draws to a close!
Here’s a round-up of the updates and new features implemented and what’s still to come.

As promised, the first iterations of the game mechanics, including the lore, has been
premiered, providing a preliminary look at the addition of:

✔ Droids – We’ve introduced the concept art of the various Droids which could be produced
by Players for their use, including a basic explanation of their functionality.

✔ Raiding – The mechanics of Raiding with Droids has been outlined and early details of
how they can be made, charged and used has been given. Raiding also provides additional
utility to Jewels, on top of the current use in Slotting.

✔ Civilians – We’ve explained how to create and use Civilians and how they can be of
advantage to Players with their ability to automate certain features such as recharging
​Droids to help streamline their Raiding activities. The specific skill of each Civilian makes
 them able to simplify a certain area of a Player’s account activity.
✔ P2P Contracts – With the addition of Player2Player contracts, certain aspects of the
running of a Player’s account can be handed over to another person, whether they are a tile
owner or not. This can provide huge help to those who have large accounts or those who
simply do not have time to manage their account alone. This feature also adds a free2play
element to the Earth 2 platform.

✔ U2U HB Trading System V1.1 – The recently launched User2User Holobuilding Trading
System has given those with creative flair the opportunity to benefit financially from their
artistic talent and the hours they dedicate to producing the many thousands of HBs and
Blueprints which are currently available to purchase in the Bazaar. Later adding the ability
to offer limited editions and earn royalties from the resale of a HB or BP. Hundreds of
creators have already benefited from this monetary boost to their Earth 2 E$ balance.

✔ 100Mth Tile Winner – Early this summer the 100mth tile was purchased and Earth 2
promised a special reward to the buyer to mark this huge milestone. Samjogo, received the
biggest single reward to ever be paid out by Earth 2 of E$10,000.

✔ Decimalisation – To facilitate many of the upcoming game mechanics. E-ther and Essence
counts have been decimalised to 2 and 4 places. This will also add ease and functionality for
possible future spending scenarios.

✔ $19M USD in Withdrawals – Most recently, we’ve announced that, as of November 2022,
a massive total of over $19m USD was successfully processed and paid out to Players all
around the world. After initial hypergrowth created a backlog of withdrawals, extra staff
were employed and additional methods of withdrawal were implemented at our expense.
This has ensured that Players can withdraw quickly, legally and efficiently, leading us to this
date, where we have a current backlog of ZERO!!

In addition to the above, we are continuously improving and updating existing features to
make them more user-friendly and efficient. For example, adding features to property deeds
to make it easy to see/edit slotted Jewels, regular fixes and updates to the HBs Editor,
updates for the map/grid view, various notifications and error messages added to help
Players stay informed while using the site and many updates to filters and sorting options
throughout the site which make the day-to-day maintenance and management of Player
accounts easier.

All this while background development, Earth 2 Player Resource Validations and the basic
running of Earth 2 continue to progress.

Unfortunately we did not meet all of our scheduled items throughout our 2nd Anniversary
Month and we would like to especially apologise to all of our community for the delay of the
​updated E2V1 footage release. We plan to release the E2V1 footage on the 14th of
 December and will give ample warning about the exact time the video will be premiered.

We also expect to announce a new partnership with another startup which has made a great
name for itself in the Metaverse space, a company that we plan to work closely with as we
move toward the first release of E2V1 before our updated footage is released!

We have released a short teaser video which can be found here :

And here:https://twitter.com/theshaneisaac/status/1598040163380527104

And a more detailed explanation about the reasoning behind the delay of the E2V1 footage
release can be found
here:https://twitter.com/theshaneisaac/status/1598021707461459968

We plan to release a high level article over the next 24 hours which summarises Raiding,
Droids and Civilians. This article will also include the first list of Jewels which will be
utilised for Raiding and Droids!

In the meantime, we continue to work hard on delivering more amazing content and
features including the much anticipated:

E2V1 footage – As mentioned in our birthday announcement, we still plan to show some
really amazing footage, but still need a little longer before we’re ready to publish! Keep an
eye out for teasers though!

Social Media Platform – We still plan to release bits of this over time and are, as always,
committed to seeing this through to a successful release! We will also look to provide some
sneak peeks as soon as we can!
New Earth 2 Website Landing Page – The new-and-improved website is still high on our list
but needs to be launched after the E2V1 video is released and, we guarantee, that the
information presentation on this revamped website is going to be well worth the wait!

Thank you again for your patience and support and we look forward to some of these
delayed, yet still exciting, announcements to come throughout December!



Earth 2 Jewels to receive more Utility with introduction of Raiding and
Droids
December 2, 2022 – Brisbane, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to reveal the new utility that
Raiding and Droids will add to one Tier 2 Jewel and a handful of Tier 3 Jewels! This update
provides a clear demonstration of Earth 2’s commitment toward expanding the utility of
existing digital items which can be earned inside of Earth 2.
​Jewels are digital items that are collectible by owning land on Earth 2. Players are able to
 then craft different types of Jewels for different purposes and slot them into their Mentars
 or sell them to other Players for E$ (E$1.00 = $1.00USD) on the Bazaar.

Jewels will soon have further utility within the upcoming Raiding mechanics by allowing
Players to slot them into Droids they own for a variety of different boosts. The Orange Jewel
will add a building boost when slotted into the Mentar before it builds a Droid.

The additional utility provided to Jewels for Raiding and Droids will work on top of each
Jewel’s current utility. Over time, Jewels will have numerous purposes and types of utility
for different game mechanics, expanding their versatility and use for their owners.

We suggest that Players who own Jewels learn how to craft their Jewels into the type they
require. Those who do not own Jewels are welcome to check the Bazaar for Jewels being
sold by other Players, but we recommend to first consider the various boosts of each Jewel
and to monitor the market prices before purchasing.

In addition to releasing the initial list of Jewels, we are very pleased to also give a sneak
peek at the current boosts Players can expect from each Jewel! Remember these boost
amounts are subject to ongoing balance changes and adjustments!

We’re even more excited to announce that Raiding and Droids will bring the first new utility
update to the corresponding Brilliant Jewels as well!

Do you think the Brilliants effect is looking strange? It is not a typo! Expect to uncover new
effects never experienced before! With the right conditions COPY will show just some of the
additional power Brilliants hold! Over time, Brilliants will receive more additional powers
and special abilities given they are the rarest form of Jewel on Earth 2!


Protection of Earth 2 Customer Data
Dec 16 2022 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 takes the protection of its customers’ data very
seriously. In addition to regular code reviews and Quality Assurance (QA) processes, Earth
2 has also hired professional security experts since December, 2020, to identify any
potential security vulnerabilities and work with our development team to ensure any such
vulnerabilities are successfully resolved. Our most senior security officer is a senior
security officer at one of the largest (Big 4) banks in Australia.

In addition to internal security and penetration testing, Earth 2 has been extremely
conscientious when selecting the technology it works with to provide the safest possible
security environment for its customers and to ensure that the least amount of personal or
private details for its customers are stored on Earth 2 servers.

Earth 2 Credit Card Processing
​Earth 2’s attitude to data security is first evidenced by its payment processing systems.
 Earth 2 uses a third-party Level 1 PCI-Compliant payment processing service. That service
 is operated through a PCI-compliant iFrame, which is hosted by the payment provider. The
 use of an iFrame allows Earth 2 to embed the payment provider’s payment page into its
 website, such that payment information is collected within the payment provider’s own
 digital environment.

Earth 2 does not, and has never stored, any credit card details or payment details of
customers on its servers.

Earth 2 & auth0
Since its launch in November 2020, Earth 2 has always used auth0’s Universal Login and
other auth0 features to store, protect and process its customers login details and
passwords.

This system functions by the user opening an external auth0 login portal in order to login to
Earth 2 before they are then returned to the Earth 2 website. Earth 2’s entire login system
and process is directly owned, hosted and controlled by auth0.

After an Earth 2 user successfully logs in, auth0 returns the user to the Earth 2 website with
a validation cookie and token in order to authenticate the session. Earth 2 does not, and has
never, stored actual passwords for Earth 2 users on its server. Earth 2 opted to use this 3rd
party service specifically for the protection of its users’ account credentials.

Earth 2 is a significant client of auth0 and has spent over $200,000 USD to ensure the safety
of its customers passwords and the protection of access to their accounts.

To learn more about auth0 and the companies they work with, please visit:

https://auth0.com/

Earth 2 & Jumio

In order to comply with various international monetary regulations, Earth 2 is required to
identify customers that trade for real money on our platform. This is to ensure we adhere to
all compliance requirements for Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Counter Terrorism
Financing (CTF) spanning various jurisdictions we operate in around the world. In order to
identify users that want to trade and withdraw funds, Earth 2 works directly with the
multinational online security company, Jumio.

Earth 2 has an integrated system which allows its customers to validate their identity and
then trade with other Earth 2 users. Earth 2 does not store any personal information on its
servers as a result of the process as Jumio handles all the validations and approvals on their
side.
​Earth 2 users who do not wish to trade directly with other users for real money are not
 required to validate their identity.

Earth 2 has spent over $300,000 USD validating users who wish to trade with other users or
want to withdraw funds they have made on our platform and is proud to ensure a safe
environment for players to trade and withdraw.

To learn more about Jumio and the types of businesses it works with, please visit:

https://www.jumio.com/

Earth 2 Two Factor Authentication (2FA) & Google Authenticator

Earth2 uses and has only ever used one authentication system, Google Authenticator, for
authenticating Earth 2 users who have activated this feature. Earth 2 opted to use Google
Authenticator specifically to avoid the need for customers to use their mobile phone
numbers for the purpose of 2FA. Earth 2 has never used *phone numbers or text messages
to process or validate any form of authentication.

* This would also save anyone from ever having to buy a throw away sim card as the service
has never existed

To learn more about Google Authenticator, please visit:

https://googleauthenticator.net/

Earth 2 is committed to ensuring the protection and ongoing security of its customers’ most
private and sensitive data. We hope the reassurance of the above measures illustrates that
we take this commitment seriously and that we have been making conscientious decisions
in the best interest of our customers since launching our service just over 2 years ago.




Earth 2 and Ready Player Me Announce Strategic Partnership
Sydney, Australia | 20 December, 2022 – Earth 2’s strategic partnership with Ready Player
Me means Players will be able to explore E2V1, the first version of Earth 2’s upcoming 1:1
digital replication of planet Earth, as customisable avatars much earlier than expected. The
partnership was uniquely revealed as part of Earth 2’s recent video showcasing the
development progress of its digital world.

“Ready Player Me creates great looking avatars that are importantly cross-platform
compatible. That was a big attraction for us at Earth 2 given our future plans of becoming a
kind of centralised Metaverse. It will mean that not only could Earth 2 Players jump into
other Metaverse experiences more seamlessly, but other people with Ready Player Me
avatars can jump straight into E2V1. All while representing the way you look or the way
you want to look. I think it’s very cool being inside a game with an avatar that reflects how
​you look in real life”, said Shane Isaac, Founder and CEO of Earth 2. “We’re super excited to
 continue working closely with the Ready Player Me team and look forward to our teams
 cooperating next year with Ready Player Me’s plans to improve certain technical aspects of
 their software and the future opportunities we can unlock together”.

Ready Player Me avatars can be created from a selfie. From there, users have access to
hundreds of customisation options to make their cross-platform compatible avatar truly
unique. Ready Player Me avatars are currently supported in over 5,000 apps and games.
Earth 2 is committed to bringing an immersive and unbounded metaverse experience to
new and existing Ready Player Me avatar owners.

“We are excited to partner with Earth 2 and offer its community access to our interoperable
avatar system,” said Timmu Tõke, CEO & Co-Founder of Ready Player Me. “Earth 2 is shaping
to be another great Metaverse destination for Ready Player Me avatars. We are looking
forward to seeing our users exploring it with their personal digital identities.”

At its core, the partnership between Earth 2 and Ready Player Me will center on continuing
to improve interoperability and performance of the avatars inside the massive E2V1 3D
world, with particular focus on allowing large numbers of avatars to load inside single
scenes or areas.

“The tech team of E2 has very difficult challenges to solve, given the scope of our ambitious
project. We were more than happy to adopt the best cross-platform avatar solution out
there and it also means we don’t have to sacrifice manpower toward developing a system
ourselves yet”, said Peter Rößl, Lead Game Developer of Earth 2. “With the upcoming
introduction of LOD(Level of Detail) optimizations to Ready Player Me, I believe that we can
reach our performance goals, while rendering a large number of concurrent players on
screen. Thanks, Ready Player Me!”

Earth 2 plans to incorporate Ready Player Me avatar creation into its website through 2023
to allow its Players the ability to start creating and customising avatars they will be able to
use inside of Earth 2 Version 1 (E2V1).

For more press related information regarding this partnership, please contact pr@earth2.io
and a representative from Earth 2 will reach out to you.

About Ready Player Me

Ready Player Me is a cross-game avatar platform for the metaverse. It lets you create a 3D
avatar with a selfie and use it in 5,000+ compatible apps and games. You can explore virtual
worlds in VRChat, join meetings in Spatial, or stream to your fans using Animaze – all with
your personal avatar that represents you in virtual worlds. Any developer can integrate
Ready Player Me into their apps and games using our free avatar SDK. It’s compatible with
Unity and Unreal Engine and works great on the web, mobile, and desktop platforms. Learn
more at https://readyplayer.me
​A Unique Gift Idea, just in time for Christmas!
 December 23, 2022 – Sydney, Australia – As we quickly approach Christmas and other end-
 of-year celebrations, we are reminded with the art of giving. So, what better way to finish
 the year than by giving someone a gift from the future? Earth 2 has recently tweaked its
 gifting system so whether you are stuck on a gift idea, or you simply want to share your love
 of the Metaverse with someone you know, you can buy virtual real estate on the biggest
 virtual land registry in the world and give them their very own piece of it!

GIFTING LAND TILES IS BOTH INTERESTING & UNIQUE

Gifted land holds all the same perks as if you were buying the land for yourself with the
current ability to build a Mentar, detect, collect and transform E-ther into Essence, the
chance to detect Jewels and in the near future build Cydroids to raid E-ther from other
properties, synthesize Civilians, convert resources into raw materials, build on the land and
much, much more.

After 2 years of development and having recently shared progress on the development of
our 3D world, E2V1, we plan to release pre-alpha access some time throughout 2023, so this
is a very exciting time for anyone to get involved and own a piece of the Metaverse!!

WHAT IS GIFTING?

Gifting land tiles is when you purchase a property from Earth 2 and send it to a lucky
recipient of your choice. Anyone with a free Earth 2 account can gift virtual real estate in the
form of land tiles, whether the giftee has an existing account or not. You can choose to pay
using your credit card or one of over 120 crypto currencies supported on our website!

However, you choose to gift virtual land, we’ve made it super easy. Don’t have an account?
That’s okay, it’s quick, easy, and free to sign up!

Sign Up Now

HOW TO GIFT LAND

Once you have successfully purchased your gift, you can find the property saved in your
Player Profile, distinguishable from your other properties by its bright pink icons.

Clicking on the pink gift code button reveals the code, which you can gift to your lucky
recipient. The property will stay on your profile until your gift recipient claims their gift
using the unique code. If your gift recipient does not claim their gift in 30 days , the property
ownership will permanently transfer to you.

Now that you know how to gift land in Earth 2, what are you waiting for? With new utility
being constantly added to land and digital assets in Earth 2, there are more and more things
for Players to discover. Earth 2’s 3D digital world will be playable as a pre-alpha in 2023 so
make sure you’re ready for it!
​Raiding, Cydroids & Civilians High Level Summary
 December 24, 2022 – Brisbane, Australia – Earth 2 recently announced the scheduled
 introduction of 4 new game mechanics. Raiding, Cydroids and Civilians make up 3 of these
 new mechanics and this article will cover a high-level summary on each one to ensure
 Players have a clear understanding on what to expect.

Each game mechanic is related to one another but also have a future place inside of Earth 2,
especially inside E2V1, our 3D world. Aside from their future representation inside E2V1,
these game mechanics bring significant new utility to E-ther, Essence, Jewels and land. In
this article we will predominantly focus on the short-term objective of the 4 new game
mechanics functioning together to deliver the ability to Raid on Earth 2.

Raiding will be easy to play but difficult to master. It will be simple to build Cydroids and
synthesise civilians and then use them to conduct raids, but whether you are running a
small operation or a massive empire, you’ll need to carefully consider various strategies to
get the most out of your Cydroid fleets during the E-ther Wars.


RAIDING & CYDROIDS GUIDE OVERVIEW

Civilians Quick Guide

The above high-level summary was a quick and easy introduction into what Raiding is, what
Cydroids do and how Civilians will fit into the mechanics. In the future we plan to allow
Players to trade their Cydroids and Civilians for E$ on an open marketplace, much like we do
for Jewels and HoloBuildings.For those of you who would like to read more details, some of
which are already covered above, please feel free to read on!

FURTHER BACKGROUND ON RAIDING, CYDROIDS and CIVILIANSIn the current Earth 2, E-
ther is considered a valuable resource – a resource that can be transformed into Essence,
the currency representing power within our metaverse, and a resource that will be able to
create virtual life. Raiding is a feature that enables players to rely on tactics and strategy to
benefit from inactive players and take E-ther that they fail to collect in time. The overall
concept of raiding relies almost entirely on one of Earth 2’s upcoming features – Cydroids.

Cydroids are semi-sentient machines that are created by the Mentar. They are constructed
from the likeness of Metasprites, which are ethereal beings that roam the lands of Earth 2.
This is because the Mentar essentially uses the Metasprites as a blueprint for the
construction of the sprite’s physical Essence-based form. Once its Cydroid body has been
fully manufactured, the meta-sprite is able to reside within its new form and implement a
range of unique and useful abilities.Metasprites appear to have an unexplainable connection
to Mentars, which give Cydroids the unique ability to hack into a Mentar to detect E-ther on
a property. An important thing to note is that Cydroids can only detect E-ther on a property
if it evaporated at the start of the previous E-ther production cycle. After being constructed
​at a Mentar, Cydroids are ‘tethered’ to that Mentar. While at the Mentar, each Cydroid is able
 to recharge, go on a raid, and dispense E-ther. Each Cydroid also has the ability to relocate a
 certain distance, and tether to other Mentars that the player may own. Additionally, Mentars
 appear to have different capabilities for supporting Cydroids depending on the size of their
 properties – a Mentar on a property with less than 4 tiles cannot support any Cydroids, and
 one on a property of 750 tiles can support 10.

The capabilities of Cydroids essentially allows players to build Cydroids on their properties
and initiate raids on nearby enemy properties, taking E-ther from all targeted players that
fail to collect their E-ther in time. Players who have built Cydroids will thus be able to treat
the world as a chess board and strategically manoeuvre fleets of Cydroids to skyrocket the
rate at which they obtain E-ther.

There are many types and appearances for Cydroids within Earth 2, determined by the
‘skin’ of the Cydroid that is crafted. Not much is known yet about the differences between
the Cydroid skins – except from looking cooler than others. As more features start to be
included in Earth 2, be prepared to find out that your plain looking Cydroid is actually
classified as an interceptor or your classy gold Cydroid is an exploration Cydroid! Whilst
current Cydroids are only fixated on the raiding system, there is much more functionality to
be implemented in the future, both as expansions on raiding itself, and as an introduction
into PvP and other features relevant to open world exploration.

The second feature relevant to raiding are Civilians. Civilians are synthesised lifeforms
whose sole purpose is seemingly to obey and serve the player by carrying out tasks
assigned to them. In the initial release of the raiding feature, there will be a maximum of 5
civilians per property. These properties will require a minimum of 4 tiles if they are to be
populated by civilians. The tasks in question heavily depend on the occupation assigned to
each civilian which will currently be determined by the order in which the civilians are
synthesised on a property. For example, the first civilian synthesised on a property will
always be allocated the data analyst position. These occupations are:

Depending on the occupation of the civilians, they will be able to unlock certain raid related
features such as providing raid insights, auto-raids and more. This only marks the beginning
of civilian utility, and as more gameplay features are released, there will surely be a higher
demand and opportunity to automate various additional tasks that come with land
ownership. Players should not grow too accustomed to managing only 5 civilians, especially
as these new features are only scratching the surface of what’s to come. Civilians also belong
to a range of different factions each with their own unique cultures, beliefs and aesthetics.
For the time being, it appears that civilians have no meaningful recollection of being
associated with these factions. It is assumed that the loyalty of Civilians to their owners and
their properties will never waver, and they can be relied on by the player to carry out their
appointed tasks dutifully.

Raiding Deployment to Stage 2 Server

​Over the next 48 hours we hope to deploy the first version of Raiding with Cydroids to Stage
 2 ( https://stage2-app.earth2.io/ ). This 48 hour timeframe is an indication only, there may
 be delays if we run into devop issues. If you happen to see the update on stage 2, please be
 aware that there will be a transition period when the update occurs which could take time
 to ensure all new systems are working together correctly, so we will notify the community
 via Discord when it’s ready to test.

Once it’s ready we will be inviting any interested Earth 2 Community members to sign up on
Stage 2 and help us to do a broader test before we deploy to production. It is important to
note that the new Raiding and Cydroid game mechanics are operating on a completely new
back-end system which we will be deploying to stage 2 for the first time. We have built this
new system as it should scale better over time. However, as with any new devops or back-
end solutions, they can take time to balance.

Please see the below list of things to consider if you decide to help us test on Stage 2 :

IMPORTANT NOTE ABOUT BOTS
Any bots that automate any part of the Raiding game loop are strictly prohibited. Any
Players found to be using a bot, risks having all of the E-ther or Essence they have gained by
Raiding removed from their account and potentially face further account restrictions.

Disclaimer for all Players, Stage 2 is our test site and any E$ credits, E-ther, Essence and
digital assets on Stage 2 are not real, nor shall be recognised as such on our live site. Any
values stated above and associated with Raiding, Cydroids, and Civilians may be adjusted
over time for the purpose of balancing game mechanics.


Raiding & Cydroid Update + Green Light on Stage2
February 22, 2023 – Sydney Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to announce an official “Green
Light” for Raiding on our pre-production server, Stage 2 ( https://stage2-app.earth2.io/ ).
Players who have test accounts on Stage 2 are invited to try out the newly developed
Raiding feature and report any issues in the #raiding-stage2-bug-reports channel on our
official Discord server https://discord.gg/earth2 .

A few guidelines for testing are listed at the end of this article so for those helpful
volunteers who wish to test, please read these guidelines carefully.

Raiding is the First StepThough the Raiding concept may look simple at first glance, it has
been built to function across the entire globe, and there are a surprising number of potential
strategies waiting to be discovered for Players seeking success.

The Cydroids’ base specs for Raiding Version 1 may seem quite limited to Players, but based
on our internal calculations, even base spec Cydroids can be highly effective and achieve
great returns on E-ther. It is also important to note that these base specs are far from the
​true potential or final capacities of the Raid Cydroid, especially once boosts from Jewel
 Slotting become available.

The Raiding feature is an introductory first step leading towards many more, highly-
anticipated components and features of our EcoSim. Therefore, this release will not only
bring rewarding gameplay to Players, but also allows us to test and improve the core engine
that will be responsible for the processing of Earth 2 EcoSim game mechanics .

While Raiding may seem like quite an ordinary feature to some, under the hood we have
developed a lot of new, core mechanics that have been designed and built to facilitate many
features released in the future. Some of the factors carefully considered were :

All of these core mechanics create a strong and expansive foundation for the EcoSim which,
in itself, is only a single component of the broader Earth 2 experience. Raiding is not only an
excellent feature to pilot new foundational mechanics, but it is another example of a feature
which offers potential rewards to our early and faithful Players, something that we feel very
strongly about.

Deployment to Live Production Servers

This release of Raiding will be considered as Raiding Version 1 and our primary focus will
be to identify and fix reported bugs on Stage 2 before deploying to our live production
environment.

We will not release any public announcement when Raiding Version 1 is deployed and live

on our production website but rather silently deploy to monitor it for a number of days.
Only after our developers confirm they are happy with the deployment will we publicly
release an announcement confirming Raiding Version 1 is live on production. This may take
days, or weeks – we cannot commit to a time frame – but please rest assured we are pushing
to get this live.

As with any new feature release, there are numerous unforeseen issues that may arise. Our
team does their best to mitigate these issues, but edge cases are sometimes unavoidable,
especially with a larger release like Raiding. As with other releases where issues were
identified and ultimately fixed, our team will be on standby to actively resolve any that may
arise.

We ask for your patience and understanding during this period as negative and abusive
comments do not help to fix or resolve anything.

Testing Guidelines for Community Volunteers
We are grateful for the community’s willingness to help in the testing of raiding. While all
suggestions are welcome, our key focus is to get raiding live in a timely and stable manner.

Therefore, to help us focus on the more critical issues, please ensure you identify whether
your listing is a #bug or #suggestion in the Discord channel. Internally, there are already
​improvements on our radar which will be rolled out over time, and while we always
 welcome community feedback, we will be predominantly focusing on fixing bugs blocking a
 production release.

Before reporting a bug or suggestion please scroll through the channel to see if your issue
has already been reported. Be aware that Cydroids created on the previous version from
December might display unexpected behaviour. To avoid any doubt, build new Cydroids.

It is very important to mention that Stage 2 is configured to build Cydroids in 2 minutes to
help volunteers test faster. When Raiding Version 1 is live on production, build time for
Cydroids will be set at a 24 hour base build time.

We should also note that as a reward to early Raiding participants, we are going to allow
concurrent building of Cydroids on properties. This means if you build 4 Cydroids, for
example, all 4 will build concurrently as opposed to the Mentar only being able to build one
at a time. We have not decided when this promotion will end.

Please use the following format when reporting to ensure efficient communication with our
development team:

<Bug/Suggestion>: <Descriptive title>

<Description>

<Steps to reproduce>

<Actual outcome>

<Expected/desired outcome>

<Attached Screenshots/Screen recordings>

Example report:

Bug: Relocating a Cydroid to a property in Gibraltar is impossible

Description:

When trying to relocate a Cydroid to a property in Gibraltar an error is thrown. The target
property is within range and has a Mentar.

Steps to reproduce:

–Select a property near the border in the Raid menu

–Go to the Raiding tab

–Select a charged Cydroid

–Select a target property in Gibraltar
​–Click [Raid]

Actual Outcome:

An error is thrown

Expected outcome:

The Cydroid starts traveling to the target property in Gibraltar

Attachment:

[Error_message.jpeg]
To refresh your memory on Cydroids and Raiding or to remind yourself of other important
points to consider when testing on Stage 2, please check out our previous article
https://earth2.io/news/raiding-details

Thank you again Earth 2 Community and happy raiding!



Cydroid Rarities & Property Trading Protocols
5th of March, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – As we draw closer to the live release of Raiding, we
felt it necessary to highlight some very important aspects for Players to consider, especially
if you plan on selling properties that are acting as Raiding launch pads or have Cydroids
tethered to them. Therefore, this article is incredibly important to read for any Player
intending to Raid or build Cydroids and will also cover details about Rarities, how that will
work and how it will provide early access privileges for active Players.




Property Trading Protocol for Cydroids


It is incredibly important for traders to understand that for a number of reasons, properties
with Cydroids tethered to them will be sold collectively, with any Cydroid/s tethered to the
property at the time of listing on the Marketplace.

Cydroids cannot simply disappear when a property is sold as they must be tethered to a
Mentar at all times. Therefore, when selling a property that has Cydroids tethered to its
Mentar, the Cydroids (including all of their assets such as Essence held in Power cells and
raided E-ther in storage) will be part of the property sale.

Players do have the option to relocate their Cydroids to another property before they place
their property for sale on the Marketplace, if they do not wish to include Cydroids and their
digital assets in the sale. Care must be taken if you are currently accepting bids for your
​properties, that you do not accept a bid before checking for tethered Cydroids, as any
 Cydroids actively tethered to that property along with their assets will be transferred as
 part of the sale.

The following list specifies the activities that will continue and activities that will be aborted
when a property with tethered Cydroids is sold:

Activities that will continue:

Activities that will be aborted:

Consequently, any E-ther remaining in the Cydroids storage bay due to partially (in-
progress at the time of listing) or not yet dispensed will belong to the new owner. Cydroids
that have not completed their relocation will have their chartered course aborted and will
return back to the property they are actively tethered with in preparation to serve their
new owner, this applies to both inbound and outbound relocation routes.

We realise that some Players may look at this protocol as an indirect way to trade Essence,
but we remind Players that Essence does not yet have a determined price on an external
trading platform. Therefore, we highly recommend that both sellers and buyers take this
into consideration before attempting to form any kind of deal which includes properties
bundled with Essence in Cydroid Power Cells with other Players.

Earth 2 has plans to add confirmation of these specific details to the properties listed on the
Marketplace in the not-so-distant future. This update will serve as an early Cydroid trading
solution, predominantly for Players wishing to trade their Cydroids before the official
Cydroid trading platform is released at a later date. Until such time, we discourage any blind
trading of Raiding launch pads properties or attempted Essence “trading” and therefore will
not be displaying Cydroids, their power status or other additional details about their digital
assets on Marketplace listed properties just yet.

For now, please disregard advertisements or claims made by other Players regarding what
Cydroids or raiding value their “for sale” property may have. Players purchasing properties
from the Marketplace will not yet have any official way to confirm the included assets of the
sale and therefore should conduct purchases solely based on the property details they can
see.
Details on Cydroid Rarities



For a not yet confirmed period, Raiding Version 1 will provide Players with an early-access
opportunity to build and obtain Cydroids directly from their Mentars via control on the
Raiding panel before there is a requirement to adhere to future rules of the EcoSim. Only
​once a build is completed will Players learn which one of over 30 unique types of Cydroids
 they have received.

Each type of Cydroid will be grouped into its own distinct level of rarity, ranging between
Common, Uncommon, Rare, Epic and Legendary. Some examples are depicted in the
accompanying announcement image. As part of a true continuation of core Earth 2 ideology,
in the future, Players will be able to sell their Cydroids to other Players, though with the
future external trading price of Essence and the trading price of Cydroids yet to be
determined, Players should consider their options carefully. These version 1 Cydroids do
present a unique opportunity, as they have the ability to directly recoup the cost of Essence
used for production by raiding and collecting unstable E-ther.

The probability of generating Cydroids from the varying rarity levels is specifically tailored
for this early-access feature as a special privilege to active Players on our platform. It is
important to note that obtaining these diverse Cydroid types and rarity levels will be
possible through alternative means in the future as part of the EcoSim, such as capturing a
Cydroid’s Metasprite and refining their physical form during the materialization process.
Having said this, the rarer the Cydroid the more difficult it will be for Players to obtain and
build as a byproduct from participation in the EcoSim.

For now, all Cydroids will start with the same ability to carry out Raids, however, we’d like
to emphasise that just as the Cydroids differ in appearance, they will also have varying
special abilities in the future that have not yet been disclosed.




Other Notes




Finally, we would like to take this opportunity to remind Players that while Raiding is the
current focus point due to it being the next scheduled feature release, it only represents part
of the future Earth 2 Metaverse Platform. That being said, Raiding is a very important step
which will lead to running the global logistics system of the EcoSim, the core game
mechanics engine for moving Resources, Civilians, goods, trading, building, combating, and
numerous other strategic initiatives.

A reminder that we will not be releasing an official announcement the moment Raiding is
live in our production environment. It is a considerable software release and therefore the
official announcement will be made once our development team is happy that the update
looks stable.

Thank you for reading this update, we look forward to seeing how Raiding is received by
our wider community very soon!
​Raiding is Officially Live on Earth 2!
 16 March, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Last week Earth 2 quietly deployed Raiding Version 1
 to our production website, the first iteration of the Raiding Game Engine. It is important to
 point out that the primary purpose of developing the Raiding Game Engine was to test it in a
 live environment as a predecessor to the massive, upcoming EcoSim Game Engine which
 will track millions of objects, tasks and activities, in real time, as Players gather, process,
 craft, move, trade and build all over the world and on a much larger scale.

Though the primary purpose was to test our new game engine, one of the secondary
purposes was to give Earth 2 Players something else to do, and even in the absence of an
official announcement, many active Players still happily picked up on the covert release. As
a result, we have already experienced a significantly high volume of activity from the new
feature along with an overwhelming amount of positive feedback from the community!

WHAT IS RAIDING VERSION 1?

Raiding Version 1 allows Players to build Cydroids on any properties with 4 tiles or more
and a Mentar, using Essence. Once built, the Cydroid’s primary utility is the ability to Raid
other Player-owned properties for unstable E-ther and, if detected during the scan, to
collect it and bring it back to the Mentar it is tethered to. Cydroids can also relocate between
friendly properties, store the E-ther they collect, dispense that E-ther, as well as be Powered,
recharged or De-Powered. They even come in over 30 different types, of varying rarities.

The core design of Raiding Version 1 makes it something that can be played casually so it is
simple to play but difficult to master. It also has the clear potential to increasingly reward
Players who choose to spend more time and discover more strategies pertinent to
mastering the Raiding system.

With relatively little effort, some early Players have already doubled or tripled their daily E-
ther, meaning strategically placed properties have the ability to not only generate E-ther
using traditional Mentar detection methods, but Raid additional E-ther for a healthier-than-
ever E-ther intake.

Whilst the official Raiding announcement was not released until today, by Friday last week
over 1 MILLION Cydroids had already been built by Players, and over 280,000 of those
Cydroids were built in the first 24 hours alone!

Many Earth 2 Players have already sent their Cydroids on scores of raids, testing out raid
strategies that they had been planning for months in advance based on details released by
Earth 2 in the form of articles and videos. Some of these strategies have been discussed
publicly within our community and shared with others, whilst others are being kept close to
their chests.
​If you’re looking for a quick way to get started with Raiding, jump to our videos for How to
 Raid and How to build a Cydroid. Otherwise, continue reading to refresh your memory on
 what Raiding Version 1 is all about, including some hints and tips for our early Players!

While one team of developers have been building the Raiding Game Engine, some
developers from our Phase 3 team have been simultaneously focusing on representing and
visualising Cydroids Raiding inside E2V1. Here’s a little sneak peek for anyone interested!

A QUICK SUMMARY OF RAIDING RULES

Whether you are a new Player wanting to know what Raiding is, or an active Player wanting
to learn more, the following information will give you some much needed insight:

RAID MECHANICS: FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

Q: Why is my Cydroid stuck on a raid with the scanning time as ??:??:?? ?

A: During a raid Cydroids may come across a Mentar that only contains stable E-ther. In this
case the Cydroid will wait on the Property until it becomes unstable and raidable. If,
however, the owner collects the E-ther before it becomes unstable, the Cydroid/s will
immediately return to your property, and the raid will have been unsuccessful.When this
happens, it means your Cydroid is putting in an extra effort to make sure it has a chance of
being ready to collect any E-ther the moment it becomes unstable. This gives Players the
biggest chance to catch even the active Players napping, who may be only a few minutes late
in collecting their E-ther for that day.

Q: How do I know what rarity my Cydroid is?

A: All 30+ First Edition Cydroids have their own rarity which is shown by a coloured circle
around the Cydroid:


White: Common

Green: Uncommon

Blue: Rare

Purple: Epic

Yellow: Legendary

For now, each Cydroid will share the distinct ability to raid unstable E-ther. However, over
time, new individual skills and abilities will be discoverable or revealed as the EcoSim
expands. The higher rarity will most likely mean the more special the Cydroid’s abilities
are, which could also mean it will be more difficult to build via the EcoSim later.
Ultimately, each Cydroid will have both immediate utility and future utility which is very
exciting.
​Q: What is the difference between Charging and Powering?

A: To put it simply, Powering a Cydroid is the act of inserting an Essence Power Cell into
your Cydroid. Charging a Cydroid is required when the power in the Cydroid’s Power Cell
has been depleted.

When a Cydroid is De-Powered, it has no Power Cell and cannot function. When a Cydroid
has 0% charge, it simply needs to be recharged (for free!) to be functional. You can charge
the Cydroid in the Raid Menu by clicking the Property’s Yellow Icon leading to the Property
Stats.

Q: What is the yellow screen icon for?

A: This icon is a quick access to your Property’s Cydroid overview, where you can see which
Cydroids are Idle, Relocating, Raiding, Full of E-ther, or Dispensing. You can access this view
just by deselecting any of the BUILD, RELOCATE, POWER, and RAID buttons too.

Q: I want to see more details about my Cydroids, where can I find this info?

A: Cydroid Management will be part of a future release and this is where you will be able to
see more specific details about the Cydroids you own, including a more holistic view with
additional ways to manage them.

Keep in mind that Cydroid Management will also give you the opportunity to gain more
insight into your raids and the ability to slot your Cydroids with Jewels.

RECENT UPDATES TO RAIDING:

We have been meticulously recording all of your bug reports and suggestions and the
following updates which will further improve your experience are now live!

1. Properties will not auto-zoom focus on map on selection now.

2. Target properties can now be filtered by tile size!

3. Target icons to allow manual auto-zoom for those who wish to visualise
where the property is.

We hope you have all been enjoying Raiding so far, and if you haven’t raided anyone yet,
what are you waiting for?? Try it today and let us know what you think!

Don’t forget to follow our socials and join our official Facebook group / Discord to interact
with our great community, who regularly share tips and tricks. Our amazing community
managers and moderators will also be there to answer any questions you may have!
​Minor Updates: Improvements to Raiding
 March 29, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to announce a few handy updates
 and improvements to the Raiding system which should enhance the Raiding experience for
 many Players. Such updates need to be balanced carefully in order to comply with the long-
 term mechanics of the EcoSim, a system where Players will be able to use Civilians or set up
 P2P Contracts in order to streamline productivity and efficiency across various activities on
 their properties.


These small but important updates demonstrate our commitment to improving key systems
while in parallel multiple teams work simultaneously on other upcoming features of Earth
                                                                                                  2

As of today, the following updates have been made to the Raid menu and subpages:

8. Updated the Raiding flow so that when the Raid action is selected, all Cydroids available
for Raiding are pre-selected.

We are listening to community feedback and taking this feedback into consideration
whenever possible. We’re also committed to improving our systems over time and thank
our Players for the patience, support and feedback they provide as we continue on with our
journey.
Introducing ‘Red Energy’ & the First RBA Reward
March 31, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Red Energy is now live on the Earth 2 platform and
will be used to welcome the very first ‘time limited’ reward of our RBA initiative. Red
Energy is the first of multiple Energy types that will be introduced into the Earth 2 platform
as Player participation or achievement rewards.

What is Red Energy?

Red Energy is an energised, gas-like matter which is drawn to areas of conflict inside Earth
2. It senses conflict and almost always attaches itself to the victor or the victor’s spoils,
though it has also been known to attach itself to other entities participating in or close to
the conflict. Whether its attachment is formed with a single victor, or distributed within a
special group of participants, there is no set pattern to this logic. Even so, Players know that
it is something good to collect whenever the opportunity arises because of the various uses
it will have over time.

How do I get Red Energy?
​Red Energy will mostly be obtainable through activities that contain some form of conflict
 inside Earth 2, meaning for the most part, Players do not have to do anything additional or
 special outside of the activity they had already chosen to participate in. Red Energy
 obtained in this way can then be used for various rewards or benefits that will become
 available from time to time.

RBA: Rewards, Badges and Achievements

Earth 2 will always strive for active gameplay to be a source of rewards for its Players and
this is one step further on delivering that promise. The specific example of Red Energy
demonstrates how Players were already actively raiding for E-ther, but will now receive the
surprise bonus of Red Energy and reap even more benefits from each and every successful
Raid.

Our virtual world will see a plethora of various RBAs become available throughout its
history. Some may be temporary and others permanent. Some will be in the form of
collectible rewards, others will unlock secrets or grant special benefits. Some benefits may
be active only when certain criteria are met; other benefits will be a permanent addition
when an achievement is unlocked. Some rewards and benefits may be limited to the first
Players to unlock a particular achievement, though most achievement-based rewards will
be available for everyone to obtain. Some achievement-based rewards may also lose their
beneficial power as more players unlock the same achievement.

The RBA tech tree has many branches and permeates through all areas of Earth 2. Most
branches in the RBA tech tree will be hidden and only revealed for the player when a new
achievement is unlocked. On occasion, Players may have to think twice before sharing their
discoveries and accomplishments with others, as these benefits may be diluted as more
Players accomplish those special achievements. Badges and Rewards will act differently and
be explained more in the future, but Red Energy is the introduction to this larger, fluctuating
RBA system.

What can Red Energy be used for?

Red Energy will have a variety of future uses in Earth 2 but initially, and for a limited time,
Red Energy will allow Players to use it to energise new land purchased into a Tier 1
property. At the moment, Red Energy is particularly drawn to the E-ther pillaged from other

Players’ properties. Because of this strong connection between raided E-ther and Red
Energy, when this E-ther is dispensed by the Player it signifies the end to the conflict and an
additional 1:1 amount of Red Energy can be earned and accumulated.

Red Energy is one of many ways Earth 2’s value-for-time ethos is incorporated within the
foundations for the People’s Metaverse and we’re excited about building on this
foundation into the future.

Benefits of Tier 1 Land
​When Tier 1 and Tier 2 Lands were first introduced to the platform, there was a balanced
 shift in the value and utility of these lands. The difference between these Tiers are defined
 by the benefits and capacity of Tier 1 vs. Tier 2 properties.
When Earth 2 announced Tier 2 land, all new land tile prices were reset to just E$0.10 per
tile, lowering the barrier of entry for new Players. Now with the introduction of Red Energy
to the platform, Raiders will be able to purchase Tier 1 land directly from the map for a
limited time.

Tier 2 land will still be able to build Cydroids and be a launchpad for Raids, but in some
cases, Players purchasing new properties to act as Raiding launch pads in new areas may
wish to enjoy the spoils of their Raiding efforts by using their Red Energy to make their new
property Tier 1.

Additionally, and depending on the location, Tier 1 tiles may even be cheaper than the
current price of new Tier 2 land in some countries making it a great reward for Players
successfully Raiding.

After all, it’s always handy to have a little more Essence generation :

How do I buy Tier 1 land?

Every time you successfully Raid and dispense E-ther, the attached Red Energy will be
credited to you, the Raider, and automatically accumulate in your balance.

To buy Tier 1 land from the map, simply select up to 750 tiles in a country of your choice.
Select BUY NOW which will then display a checkbox to unlock your selected tiles to be Tier
1, using your Red Energy.

You will need 3 units of Red Energy for every tile selected for purchase. If your Red Energy
balance is insufficient, you can earn more by successfully raiding and dispensing more E-
ther.

How can I check my Red Energy balance?

Checking your Red Energy balance is very simple. You can find the current balance on:




To summarise all the new information on Red Energy:
​E2PRV System Reopens for Silver and Copper Resource Claims
 April 14, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – The Earth 2 Player Resource Validation (E2PRV)
 system is an initiative primarily designed and developed to provide our Players with the
 opportunity to claim a Resource they could prove exists on the correlating real world
 location and, therefore, should also exist on their land inside Earth 2. The secondary
 purpose of the E2PRV system is to facilitate community collaboration and enable other
 Players to support these claims in return for a reward if the claim proved to be successful.

We approached this validation process very seriously and formed a stand alone internal
team, we refer to as the CAT, whose sole focus is to review Player submitted claims and
either approve or reject those claims based on an internal assessment criteria. Though the
CAT has erred on the side of leniency, we have always been clear that the CAT reserves the
right on final decision to award or reject a Resource validation claim.

We’re proud to say that the CAT has almost completed the rigorous validation process for
over 75,000 claims! These covered a variety of claims submitted for Coal, Limestone, Iron
Ore, Gold, and Oil Resources. Overall, we deem the E2PRV initiative, which was originally
designed to benefit our Players, as a massive success, with tens of thousands of Players
benefitting not only from the distribution of the claimed Resource on their land, without
cost, but from the generous Essence reward associated with the claim approval.


Now that we are drawing close to completion on the initial E2PRV claims, we want to keep
the CAT moving, so we are excited to have reopened our E2PRV system for Silver and
Copper claims, with a few adjustments to the system which will be covered in this article.

E2PRV Reopens With A Few Adjustments!

Though we have developed and supported the ability for Players to claim Resources on
their Earth 2 land, based on Resources that exist in real world locations, we have always
planned to procedurally spawn Resources in areas that may not correlate to real world
locations, as a way to make things interesting.

Earth 2 invested a significant amount of development time, funds and effort into sourcing,
purchasing rights to, and processing massive amounts of global data based on real world
Resource locations in order to ensure Players automatically received Gold, Oil, Iron,
Limestone and Coal on their properties.

But moving forward, as we commit more development time and resources toward the initial
release of E2V1 and other upcoming features, we now plan to focus on the procedural
placement of future tiered Resources, something that was strongly suggested by supporters
and critics alike, without automated real-world placement. This decision will save significant
development time, funds and resources which can be better directed toward other
developments.

Pursuing the procedural placement of future Resource types will also bring with it the
exciting opportunity for Players to discover Resource locations in new ways such as
​through exploration and scanning inside E2V1. Imagine finding that perfect vein of rutile
 with a nice consistency of titanium!

Although we will be pursuing a more procedural distribution of Resources inside E2V1, we
still want to provide a window of opportunity for Players to claim some of these future
Resources, if they are able to provide proof their property contains that Resource in the real
world. These windows of opportunity will not be tied to a specific duration, but will tend to
last around 4-8 weeks. Therefore, if you’re planning on claiming a future Resource for one of
your properties, be sure to keep a close eye on Earth 2 announcements.

For now, the re-opening of the E2PRV system for Copper and Silver Resource claims on
Player-owned properties offers a fantastic opportunity for Players who believe they have
Copper or Silver on their property, to create a claim and potentially get the presence of that
Resource validated.

Additionally, now more Players than ever may have a little more dispensable Essence to
stake on E2PRV claims, capitalising on their gains from Raiding or the initial E2PRV
initiative. But remember, rejections are always possible so be mindful of what you stake
your Essence on! Players should take a good note of the following information and
adjustments pertaining to the E2PRV system:

What about Current E2PRV Claims?

While most existing claims have now been evaluated and assigned an outcome, there are
still some claims marked for approval and pending Resource distribution, so don’t worry if
your claim remains ‘Under Investigation’ as it may still be approved over the coming days.

Note on Resource Frequency Changes: Due to the auto-approval process for claims which
fall in the designated area of a valid claim, some properties may have the attributed
Resource frequency changed after “approval”. This change can happen all the way up until
the final claim is validated. However, if a change in frequency occurs, it will always be an
improvement (e.g. frequency changes will only ever be from UF to HF, not HF to UF).

Claim Rejections

In addition to the backlog of claims waiting for approval, all claims that were determined as
invalid will be rejected once all pending approvals are finalised. As previously stated, claim
rejection will occur once all other claims have been approved so as to allow claims that
provided invalid evidence to still be approved, and rewarded, under a valid polygon.

As these rejections will be done in a single action, we understand it may be disheartening
for some Players to see a large number of rejections coming through. In most cases, claims
flagged for rejection simply did not provide valid evidence to support their claim, and did
not follow the distinct guidelines we publicised from the very beginning.

For example, many claims simply provided evidence of gold broadly existing in Australia, in
general, for a property located in Australia. This type of claim and evidence could not be
​deemed as sufficient, nor accurate to the exact location of their property, and therefore
 must be rejected. We fully understand the time and Essence that many of our Players have
 put into the E2PRV process and that is why our team have erred on the side of leniency in
 terms of validating these claims, whilst maintaining the integrity of the process.

Ultimately, this delayed the entire validation process as the CAT performed additional
research for every single ‘invalid’ claim, to verify whether there was in fact the occurrence
of the Resource in the area. This additional work was carried out despite the Player not
having submitted any location-based evidence. While this was very time-costly to our team
and resources, it was an additional step we decided to take, to benefit as many Players as
possible.

That being said, there are still a significant number of claims which we fundamentally could
not approve, and these are the claims you will be seeing come through in the bulk
rejections.

UAE Oil Claims

UAE Oil claims are slowly but surely getting approved by the massive Resource polygon we
have attributed to this area. These approvals and Oil distribution within the UAE will be
complete before the final rejections occur.

Closing Notes

As always, Players are urged to exercise due diligence when gathering evidence for their
silver and copper claims. Whilst we strongly encourage Players to work together and share
information, evidence that works for one Player will not necessarily work for another Player.
Due to some claims being auto-approved under a Resource polygon, evidence that was
provided for an auto-approved claim is not guaranteed to result in another approval (as the
evidence may have been insufficient but the claim was lucky enough to fall under a verified
polygon).

The E2PRV system was created to empower our Players by providing them with an
opportunity to take ownership and claim Resources they believe should be present on their
property. This opportunity will not last for long as we gradually move towards distributing
Resources which may not correspond with their real-world locations but contribute to the
overall balance of the EcoSim. Once this opportunity is missed, a Player will no longer be
permitted to claim a Resource based on real world data, and unless a new claim period is
reopened for that particular Resource, all Players will need to rely on the Earth 2 Resource
distribution balancing mechanic for Resources on their existing properties.

We are building an incredible Resource system that will become the underlying foundation
of everything buildable inside Earth 2. Be sure to keep your eyes peeled for an upcoming
announcement about Wood, Water and Sand and scores of other Resource types set to play
key parts in the Earth 2 EcoSim!
​E-ther transactions brings E-ther Banking one step closer & more



April 20, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 has implemented important changes which will
allow Players to see itemised transaction records for E-ther gained inside the Earth 2
EcoSim. These updates have been made in preparation for the increasing utility that E-ther
will have inside of Earth 2, such as for the upcoming Civilians release, the future E-ther
banking system, and more.

This E-ther update will have minimal effects on the Player experience and for the most part,
Players will still receive their E-ther-awaiting-claim notifications as per usual, and claim
said E-ther as per usual.

Changes to claimed E-ther storage (and transactions)

In order to prepare the E-ther mechanics to work correctly for Civilian Synthesis and other
future utilities within the EcoSim, we have implemented a new system which moves away
from storing E-ther “locally” per property (how it used to work) and tallying the total to
now storing it as an aggregated “global” Player balance, making the Player’s E-ther balance
accessible for future use on any of their properties, regardless of which location it
originated from. This means that E-ther will still evaporate on Player-owned land but, once
claimed, this E-ther will be stored as a fully fledged aggregated global balance, without
being distinguished as originating from a specific property.

Not only was this a significant change required before the release of Civilians, but an update
necessary for the future E-ther banking system which will allow Players to convert partial
amounts of E-ther into Essence.

Changes to Player Experience

While this technical update required considerable reworking of our backend system, it is
something that will not greatly impact a Player’s experience in how they collect and store
their E-ther. As a player, the only changes you may notice will be that the EDC (only relevant
to T1+EDC Land holders) value deduction occurs when E-ther is claimed, rather than when
E-ther is transformed into Essence. This is due to the fact that E-ther is now banked as an
aggregated global balance per Player and not per property.

Our previous system was purpose-built to store the E-ther claimed per property resulting in
a direct link to the relevant property when Players transformed their E-ther into Essence
allowing for local property EDC balances to be more easily deducted. Moving forward, our
engineering team identified a number of drawbacks in continuing with this legacy system
which resulted in a decision to deduct the equivalent value in Essence from the EDC on that
property when the owner of that property claims the E-ther, not when the E-ther is
transformed into Essence.
​This update was quietly deployed around April 14th to give our developers time to ensure
 the new system was working correctly before making an official announcement.

Updated EDC deduction process (reduced deduction rate)

Essence that is deducted from a Player’s EDC total is equal to a static percentage conversion
amount of E-ther, and allows a Player’s Essence gain / EDC deduction value to be accurately
calculated. While the E-ther to Essence conversion rate may, in the future, change for all
Land Tiles, the E-ther evaporation on original Tier 1 land with EDC will be adjusted to
account for any changes implemented. Calculating the EDC deductions at the E-ther
claiming stage, rather than the transformation stage (what used to happen), also means that
the EDC total is now reduced in smaller increments, rather than in large amounts as was
previously the case when Players would collect and save up their E-ther before transforming
to Essence in bulk.

The EDC total will only be reduced when the evaporated E-ther is claimed by the owner of
the EDC property, it will not be reduced if the E-ther dissipates or if the E-ther is raided by
other Players.

Players still have the option to transform their E-ther directly into Essence as has always
been the case, or to use boosted EDC E-ther on something else. The choice is completely up
to the Player.

Updates to the E-ther transaction page

Players will also notice their claimed E-ther transactions are now listed per property they
originated from. This will prove very handy for many Players and provide insights into how
much E-ther was claimed on a Player’s property and how much was Raided and dispensed
from Cydroids.

To summarise the latest update to E-ther transactions:

Thank you for your ongoing support and patience as we continue adjusting, improving and
developing systems required for future plans inside Earth 2.

Over the past month Earth 2 has released Cydroids, Raiding, multiple Raiding
Improvements, Red Energy, the new E2PRV system for Silver and Copper and now E-ther
Transactions.

All of these releases have taken place as our team simultaneously closes in on the release of
Civilians, continued development of E2V1, massive internal progress on EcoSim game
design dynamics and many other ‘things’ constantly happening in the background!

—
​Get Supercharged on Earth 2 Day 2023!
 April 22, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Last year on April 23rd, Earth 2 introduced the #E24E1
 #Earth2Day concept. Our long-term goals to provide assistance back to Earth 1, across
 numerous noteworthy causes including humanitarian, environmental and educational have
 not changed. However, we admit and take ownership that in order to help others we first
 need to complete building core foundational features for the EcoSim, Token Launch and
E2V1.

Our commitment to building our own 1:1 scale digital replication of the planet Earth, E2V1,
has also not changed, with multiple videos released displaying progressive development
since #Earth2Day 2022, the most notable being the Earth 2 Version 1 3D Earth Tech Demo
on YouTube in December last year. E2V1 has progressed even further since then, something
we will be excited to show again closer to the Essence Token Launch.

Although we have not yet implemented systems that will directly or indirectly filter back to
help our physical planet Earth, we also did not want to simply let #Earth2Day idly slip by
without offering our active Players some form of a reward, at the very least remembering
the #Earth2Day concept.

Therefore, from UTC 00:01 April 23, 2023 to UTC 00:01 April 24, 2023, Earth 2 will become
‘supercharged’ as a sign of acknowledgement for #Earth2Day resulting in an increased
spawn rate of E-ther by 500%!

This E-ther will spawn progressively during that period and will be subject to the standard
E-ther rules, remaining stable for 24 hours once detected by the Mentar, giving the owner
that period of time to claim their E-ther before it becomes unstable and Open Season begins
for Earth 2 Raiders!

So be sure to log in and claim your bonus E-ther during the 24 -hour stable time before it
ends up in the belly of a lurking Cydroid!




Sustenance for First Edition Civilians on Earth 2
May 3, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to share details of the first sustenance
system within Earth 2. Amongst other things, this article will also explain how Red Energy
will be used specifically as the initial unit to sustain the First Edition Earth 2 Civilians.

First Edition Civilians will primarily be focused on helping Players to streamline and
automate their Raiding operations. Players will be able to keep their Civilians happy,
sustained, and focused on their tasks by feeding them Red Energy (a type of energy that can
be gained via conflict-type activities such as executing successful raids on other Player’s
properties).
​“Following changes that were made to the game design team last year, we have been striving
 to build systems with completed game loops”, said Earth 2 Founder, Shane Isaac. “First
 Edition Civilians are part of the Raiding feature and although these various mechanics are
 being developed in steps, once Civilians are fully released we will see a full circle game loop,
 something we are dedicated to continue and replicate in other key aspects of Earth 2
 moving forward.”

Shane went on to say, “We are also working on visually representing these game mechanics
inside E2V1 in real time allowing Player initiated EcoSim type game play that immersive
Players can not only see but be able to interact with in different ways while running around
inside E2V1, for example, strategic Players on the EcoSim mixing their activity directives
with hands on Players inside E2V1 with both being able to influence the experience of one
another. We will start to see an amalgamation of different style Player activity converging
into the same space, where you might have one Player executing directives for logistics from
their mobile device and another trying to directly intercept that directive inside E2V1. It’s
something I am personally really excited to develop over time.”

Details on How Red Energy Sustenance Works

Red Energy is instantly transferable via a Player’s Mentar network, meaning a Player can
use their global Red Energy balance to sustain their Civilians on any of their properties
around the world. This means that Red Energy earned in Africa can be used to sustain a
Player’s Civilians in America, and vice versa.

If a Player does not have enough Red Energy to sustain their First Edition Civilians, then
those Civilians who miss out on Red Energy will cease working and begin wandering in the
wilderness, looking for food or another source to sustain them to stay alive. For now, a
Player will have the ability to convince their wandering Civilians to return automatically to
their property and tasks once they have enough Red Energy to lure them back.

First Edition Civilians will require one Red Energy unit per week to keep them loyal and
happy. The unit of Red Energy is automatically distributed to each Civilian, once a week
based on the day they received their first sustenance of Red Energy. For example, if you
synthesise a Civilian on a Monday, you will need to replenish that Civilian with Red Energy
every Monday. If a Civilian that was usually replenished on a Monday wandered into the
wilderness and was lured back on a Wednesday, the new weekly sustenance cycle would
occur on a Wednesday.

In addition to individual property data, an overview of the Civilian workforce and Red
Energy Sustenance requirements will be featured under Civilian Management. The above UI
example shows that:
Later, Players may be able to intentionally let Civilians go or sell them in the Bazaar, but for
now, Civilians will begin wandering automatically if they are not given their Red Energy on
time. The time and date the Civilians require their Red Energy will determine the order in
which they begin to wander.
​Is E-ther still Life?

E-ther will continue to represent life and the future of sustaining Civilians inside Earth 2
will still rely on E-ther. When agriculture and farming are introduced, Players will require
some E-ther to initiate the process. However, after initiation, the production system will
become sustainable via other means, such as work force, water, machinery and so forth.

From time-to-time Earth 2 may design for other non-conventional methods to accommodate
a particular purpose, such as the case with Red Energy, something that is already tied to
E-ther and conflict. To avoid the need for Players to spend E-ther in order to sustain their
First Edition Civilians, the introductory sustenance system was designed using Red Energy
as a direct gain from successful gameplay which in turn supports growth of the Player’s
Civilian workforce and rewards the Player with a way to sustain their Civilians until farming
and agriculture components of the EcoSim is introduced.

Future Plans

In the future, wandering Civilians will be vulnerable to other Players luring them away,
meaning a Player could lose their Civilians to another Player if they are not properly taken
care of. Additionally, Players who lose their Civilian regularly may see their Civilian leave
the property all together, to roam around inside E2V1 until either another Player convinces
them to join their workforce, or something else.



Civilians XP + Raid Commander Targeting System
May 17, 2023 – Sydney Australia – Before Civilians are deployed to our Stage 2 pre-
production server, we would like to provide an update to our Earth 2 Community about
how the new Civilians XP and Raid Commander Auto-Target system will function.

We would also like to point out that Red Energy Sustenance, Civilians XP and the expanded
Raid Commander Auto-Target system are new expansions to the original Civilians concept
which subsequently caused a delay on the previously scheduled release of the initial
Civilians system.

“These new systems are deep and intricate and I’d like to take a moment to thank our BE
developers, FE developers, game designers, QA, UI/UX team and others who have managed
to design the mechanics, design the interface, implement the backend, code and connect the
frontend and run initial quality assurance checks, all in a record time considering how
complicated these new additional expansions are and how they needed to be merged into
the original concept”, said Shane Isaac, Founder of Earth 2.

“The newly introduced game mechanics help form a more robust game loop, reward players
who progress with better skilled and better functioning Civilians, allow Raid Commanders
to target multiple properties, introduce an early version of the sustenance concept which
ties back to direct Player activity, provides new strategic play and very importantly it
​allowed us to create, design and develop systems that we can test for planned adoption in
 other parts of the EcoSim.”

CIVILIANS XP SYSTEM

While Civilians will help Players manage their properties and tasks inside Earth 2,
improving Civilians abilities will require more than E-ther and Red Energy to synthesise
and sustain them. This is where the new Civilians XP system will come in handy.

The Civilians XP system will allow Players to level up their Civilians, boosting productivity
and obtaining new skills through hands-on experience. The first Civilians, which will assist
Players to execute their Raiding activities, will gain XP from successful Raids when E-ther is
dispensed on that property. Initially, every 0.01 E-ther dispensed will equate to 1 XP.

It takes a team effort between the Civilians to Charge, Raid and Dispense, therefore, the XP
is evenly split between however many Civilians Players have dedicated to their Raiding
system for each specific property. If a Player has 3 Civilians on one property and that
property dispenses 3 E-ther, that would equate to 300 XP, with each Civilian receiving 100
XP.
Players will be able to check their Civilian’s XP level by following the below steps:

It is important to note that Players can gain XP for their Civilians even when Raiding
manually, effectively teaching any Civilians they have on that property by executing the task
themselves. For example, if a Level 1 E-ther Reckoner is due to start dispensing in 120
minutes, Players can manually press the Dispense button earlier, speeding up the process
without losing any XP points.

Here is a helpful chart outlining the various XP points required to level up, and some of the
abilities associated with each XP level.

RAID COMMANDER TARGET SYSTEM

The Raid Commander has the unique ability to target properties and automatically launch
raids for a Player. Players are able to not only select which properties to Auto Raid, but they
can easily adjust which properties are targeted by adding or removing favourite icon types
to the Auto Raid target icon interface.

There are 2 prerequisites before a property can be auto-targeted by the Raid Commander :

Most active Raiders have developed their own system using the existing favourite icons to
determine the best to worst properties to raid from their launch properties. The Raid
Commander’s Auto-Targeting System allows Players to then set one or more favourite icons
on the new Auto-Raid targeting interface. By adding or removing Favourite Icons from this
interface, Players can determine which properties their Raid Commander should focus on
launching auto-raids to.
​Each property will have its own unique Auto-Raid Target Icon interface, enabling Players to
 customise and set different Auto-Raid Target Icons for each property they own. For
 example, a Player may focus on raiding blue birds, green trees and red cherries from one
 property or just blue birds from another.

What’s more, if a Player has selected the blue bird and green tree icon with a Level 1 Raid
Commander, the Raid Commander will find the most recent blue bird OR green tree icon
from the recent list and continue raiding and re-raiding that property. If the Player has a
Level 2 Raid Commander, then it will find the 2nd most recent blue bird OR green tree icon
from the recent list and raid that property, meaning it will alternate between raiding two
different properties as opposed to one because the 2nd most recent will keep renewing,
resulting in a new property taking its position on the recent list each time an auto raid
occurs.

This dynamic Targeting System will allow Players to refocus their Raid Commander on
different groups of target properties quickly and effectively. We designed this system
instead of a numerically assigned target system which would have resulted in Players
needing to manually set static lists that would require granular, individual property
adjustments if Raid success rates changed.

Though our unique Targeting System may take a little longer to understand, we are
confident it will better streamline the Auto-Raiding function and require less granular
adjustments by the Player in the long run.

Players will be able to set up Auto-Raiding using the Raid Commander by using the
following steps:

Note that in order for a Raid Commander to auto-raid a target property, that property must
have already been raided at least once manually, have a favourite icon applied, and the
favourite icon must be set as a targeted icon.

SYNTHESISING CIVILIANS

To begin, Players will be able to synthesise 3 Civilians on properties of 4 tiles or larger.
Each Civilian will require 25 E-ther and 4 Red Energy Units to be fully synthesised. Each

Civilian will require an ongoing 4 Red Energy Units per week to sustain them, an increase
from 1 Red Energy Unit as previously stated.

Only one Civilian can be synthesised at a time, the first Civilian being the E-ther Reckoner
(Dispenser), the second the Cydroid Technician (Recharger) and the third Civilian that can
be synthesised is the Raid Commander. The E-ther Reckoner will also have the ability to
choose between automatically dispensing any E-ther stored as soon as it returns back from
a Raid or to wait until the Storage is full before dispensing. It can also abort a Cydroid
dispensing from Level 5 in case that Cydroid is potentially needed in sudden scenarios that
could occur in the future.
​To Synthesise a Civilian:

We are excited for Players to explore the new Civilians feature on our Stage2 pre-
production server in the near future. Keep an eye on our socials for upcoming
announcements on the official release of Civilians, but as has historically been the case, we
plan to release Civilians on the live server and ensure everything is stable before releasing
the official announcement.


First Edition Civilians Officially Live on Earth 2!
June 9, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Our highly anticipated First Edition Civilians are now live
on Earth 2! Synthesise Civilians on your properties to manage your Cydroids and Raids, and
level up to improve your Civilians performance by gaining XP!

Since the release of the Raiding system, Players have been eagerly awaiting the release of
the Civilians system. These First Edition Civilians will be tasked with Raid-focused jobs, but
in the future, they may have a part to play in other areas of Earth 2.

The Civilian system was primarily designed and developed for the purpose of assisting
Players to manage their properties, and this is something that Players will experience in a
wide array, as further iterations of Civilians are released.

This initial release of the Civilian system is more robust than our original scope details
published late last year and includes key improvements such as the ability to raid multiple
properties with the Raid Commander, a targeting system, an XP system and a sustenance
system, all of which were complicated additions yet critical in improving the overall Player
experience with Civilians and rewarding those who spend the time to learn and grind.

Recap: What are Civilians?
Civilians are semi-sentient beings synthesised by Players and employed to automate the
operation of various Raiding tasks, removing the need for the Player to carry out each task
manually. Civilians are essential for Players with a large portfolio of properties to manage all
their tasks efficiently. However, Civilians may also be used by Players who are wanting to
reduce their manual task-load in general.

Interested in the lore behind Civilians? Check out our deep-dive video here, but remember,
the Civilian Game Mechanics developed were a more advanced version that what is covered
in this video:

Civilian Management Interface
Civilians can be synthesised and managed via the Civilian Management interface, which is
located within the Raid Management page. This can be accessed by either the Drop Down
Menu or via the Raid Interface.

The Civilian Management Interface will display the Player’s Red Energy Overview, as well as
the option to manage by Civilians, or by Properties.
​Players must select a property to synthesise a Civilian. If your property is not displayed in
 the list of properties, it is most likely because the property consists of less than 4 tiles.

How can I synthesise a Civilian?
For Earth 2’s First Edition Civilians, a Player must have a property consisting of a minimum
of 4 tiles to synthesise and support a Civilian. Why 4 tiles? Well one reason for this is that
Red Energy is required to sustain Civilians, and Civilians on less than 4 tile properties will
not be contributing to any E-ther or Red Energy gains, since raiding is not supported on
these properties. The only way to obtain Red Energy currently is to successfully Raid E-ther
from enemy properties.

First Edition Civilians are synthesised in the Synthesis Chamber within the Mentar using E-
ther and Red Energy. However, these Civilians are prone to wandering in search of
sustenance and later on, Players may be able to obtain new Civilians by enticing a

wandering Civilian who has strayed from their property.

For now, the cost to Synthesise and sustain a single Civilian is as follows:

Synthesis Cost: 25 E-ther + 4 Red Energy Units

Civilian Sustenance: 4 Red Energy Units per week
Synthesis Time: 24 hours per Civilians (only 1 Civilian can be synthesised at a time in a
Mentar).

Order of Synthesis
One property can currently support up to 3 Civilians and only one Civilian is synthesised at
a time. Civilians are always synthesised in the same order:

To synthesise a Raid Commander on a property, the E-ther Reckoner and Cydroid
Technician Civilians must be synthesised first.

Synthesised Civilians will appear as so:

Sustenance for Civilians
Once synthesised, a Civilian must be fed Red Energy regularly to keep them from
abandoning their tasks and wandering away from their property. Sustaining one Civilian
requires 4 Red Energy units per week, even if they haven’t been actively working or if they
are turned off from their tasks. The Red Energy required to sustain your Civilians will be
automatically deducted from your total Red Energy Balance.

If you do not have enough Red Energy, your Civilians will start wandering. If you gain more
Red Energy through successfully dispensing raided E-ther, they will automatically return
back to their properties.
​Civilian XP and Occupational Mastery Levels
 Newly synthesised Civilians will begin at Occupational Mastery Level 1 with 0 Experience
 Points (XP). Civilians gain XP every time E-ther is successfully raided and dispensed on
 their property. This includes E-ther gained through manual raids. For every 1 E-ther
 dispensed, 100 XP is distributed amongst all the Civilians on the property (if there is only 1
 Civilian on the property, that Civilian will gain 100XP, if there are 2 Civilians each one will
 gain 50 XP, and so on).

The XP Level, also known as an Occupational Mastery Level, determines how skillful a
Civilian is at their job. Every time a Civilian reaches a higher Level, they will unlock more
abilities/benefits which will directly improve their efficiency and speed, for now, up to
Level 6 at which time they will stop gaining XP until more levels are released.

Once you have synthesised Civilians on your property, you should be able to see a
countdown in the Raid interface property card, under one or more of the action buttons:
Charge, Dispense and/or Raid.

If no countdown is shown, this can be due to a number of reasons:

Each Civilian will have different wait times for completing their automated tasks, based on
their Occupational Mastery Level. This wait time is displayed for each property with
Civilians under the respective buttons for the automated task: RAID, CHARGE ALL, and
DISPENSE ALL.

A Player can choose to bypass the wait time by manually selecting the button at any time.

The First Civilian: E-ther Reckoner
The E-ther Reckoner automatically dispenses E-ther raided by the Cydroids on the
property. You can set your E-ther Reckoner to dispense E-ther when the Cydroid’s E-ther
storage is either “Full” or “Contains E-ther”.

If you raid a lot of small properties with little E-ther, it could be more efficient to dispense
when the Cydroids are full. However, if you expect your Cydroids to return with large
amounts of E-ther, it’s probably more efficient to dispense as soon as they contain any E-
ther so they can collect as much E-ther as possible on the next raid.

Auto-Dispensing Ability:
The E-ther Reckoner’s XP Level will determine how much wait tme there is before your
Civilian automatically dispenses E-ther from the Cydroid/s.

Level 1: 120 minute wait before dispensing

Level 2: 90 minute wait before dispensing

Level 3: 60 minute wait before dispensing

Level 4: 30 minute wait before dispensing
​Level 5: 15 minute wait before dispensing + Unlocks the ability to abort the dispensing
 process early.

Level 6: 5 minute wait before dispensing + Ability to abort the dispensing process early.

In addition to the waiting period, dispensing will only be initiated when the Cydroid is at
100% charge and the Cydroid is Idle.

Abort Dispense
Level 5 and 6 E-ther Reckoners have the ability to abort the dispense action.

If you decide to abort dispensing during an automated process, your E-ther Reckoner’s
auto-dispense settings and the Cydroid’s E-ther storage status will affect what action is
triggered. If you have set your E-ther Reckoner to dispense Cydroids when they “Contain E-
ther”, the abort action will reset the E-ther Reckoner’s countdown for auto-dispense, at
which time the dispensing process will restart. If you have set your E-ther Reckoner to only
dispense Cydroids when they are “Full” and the Cydroid is partially dispensed when the
abort action is initiated, the Cydroid will successfully abort dispensing and the countdown
for the auto-dispense action will not be triggered until the next time the Cydroid’s E-ther
storage is full.

The Second Civilian: Cydroid Technician
The Cydroid Technician automatically charges Cydroids on your property which have less
than 100% charge. You can turn auto-charging of Cydroids On or Off at any time.

Level 1: 120 minute wait before charging

Level 2: 90 minute wait before charging

Level 3: 60 minute wait before charging

Level 4: 30 minute wait before charging

Level 5: 15 minute wait before charging

Level 6: 5 minute wait before charging

Whenever your Cydroids are Idle, the Cydroid Technician will continue to charge them so
that they are fully charged and ready for the next raid.

The Third Civilian: Raid Commander
The Raid Commander automatically targets specific properties from your list of recent
raids.

The exact properties that are targeted are selected by adding or removing the desired
favourite icons in the Auto Target Properties list.
​In the Raid Commander’s Ability Menu, the “NEW AUTO-RAID” button can be selected to
 manage your auto-raids. There, you can view and edit the Auto Target Properties list of
 selected favourite icons, view and edit which target properties are assigned which favourite
 icons, and even launch manual raids so that a desired target property can appear in your
 Recent list and be targeted in the next auto-raid.

For the Raid Commander to target a specific property:

To check which properties your Raid Commander is targeting for auto-raids, simply select
the A(U)TO RAID button to reveal the target property/ies.

If no properties appear on this list, make sure all the prerequisites for the Raid Commander
Targeting System are met. Remember, you must specify which properties your Raid
Commander should target by adding favourite icons to the Raid Commander’s Auto Raid
Target list.

You can easily check which favourite icons are on a Raid Commander’s Auto Target
Properties list by looking at the property card overview in the Raid interface:

Level 1: Auto-raid 1 Target property

Level 2: Auto-raid 2 Target properties

Level 3: Auto-raid 3 Target properties
Level 4: Auto-raid 4 Target properties

Level 5: Auto-raid 5 Target properties

Level 6: Auto-raid unlimited Target properties

Remember, setting a Raid Target with a specific Favourite Icon is a global setting for your
account. This Raid Target property will have the same assigned Icon for all your Raid
Commanders, no matter which property you are raiding from. However, the Recent Raids
list of target properties are unique to each raid base property. Bear in mind that while you
can create different Auto Raid Target lists for each of your properties’ Raid Commanders,
you can only assign one favourite icon to a target property at a time. This is neither an
advantage nor a disadvantage in raid management, it is simply an additional factor to
consider when strategising your raid targets.

Here is an example:

Let’s say you have three properties around the same area, called Property A, Property B,
and Property C.

All three properties have fully synthesised Civilians that are ready to roll.
​Target X is a neighbouring property that is in raiding range of all three of your properties,
 and you have set the White Heart as the favourite icon for this target property.

Target X has also been manually raided before from Property A and Property B, but never
from Property C.

If you decide to make the Raid Commander on Property A and Property C target all Icons,
and the Raid Commander on Property B only target Blue Bird Icons, this is what the Auto
Target list will look like for each of these properties:

Cydroids on Property A will be sent on an auto-raid to Target X because the property has
been raided from Property A before and the White Heart icon is included in the Raid
Commander’s Auto Target Properties list.

Cydroids on Property B will not be sent on an auto-raid to Target X, because the White
Heart icon has not been specified in that property’s Raid Commander’s Auto Target
Properties list.

Cydroids on Property C will never be sent on an auto-raid to Target X, because while the
White Heart icon is on the Raid Commander’s Auto Target Properties list, Target X has
never been raided from Property C before and is therefore not in its Recent Raids list.

HOT TIP: When Cydroids were first released, many Players built maximum Cydroids on all
of their properties without considering gameplay strategy. We advise Players to not
synthesise Civilians on properties that do not have any Cydroids, or whose Cydroids are
inactive, as this is not sustainable.

However, if you are an active Raider, What are you waiting for?? Synthesise your Civilians,
improve your raiding strategy and gain those XPs!

You can also check out our previous announcement which includes more details about the
Raid Commander Targeting System and the Civilian XP system. We updated some of the XP
points required for different levels since the previous announcement which are reflected in
the image below.

Note: The cost to synthesise and sustain Civilians, as well as the number of XP required to
reach a certain Occupational Mastery Level are all game mechanic components that may be
altered to improve the overall system. Any time-based action and times associated with
each Civilian Level are also subject to future alterations.


The Weaver, Prospecting Cydroids & Resources
June 18, 2023 – Sydney Australia – As we continue to release different facets of the EcoSim,
we find ourselves moving closer to a fully fledged, operational, base version. As part of the
next steps, today marks the beginning of a process which will see the unveiling of 21
additional Resources, all of which will be discoverable on Player-owned properties!
​Periodically, one or more new Resources will be unveiled at a time, and the E2PRV system
 will open at the same time to accept claims for these Resources on Player-owned land. In
this article, we will reveal the Prime Jewels for each Resource and details regarding the new
Prospecting Cydroids, the Weaver, and their roles in the Resources system in Earth 2.

As with most features of Earth 2, Resources have their own intricate design and more
detailed information about this system is explained in this article. For those who would
prefer to watch a video breakdown of this article please click the video URL at the bottom of
this page.

EcoSim: The Beginnings
As Earth 2 is progressing closer and closer towards the Alpha release of E2V1, many may be
wondering:

“How will the next part of the EcoSim start?”

Beginning today, the EcoSim is a topic we will be addressing in a dedicated series of
upcoming articles scheduled for release throughout the year. These articles will each detail
the assets and processes that will be involved in the next stages of the EcoSim.

This series of articles is designed to progressively educate the Earth 2 community of the
many features and mechanisms of the EcoSim and prepare Players for the final “EcoSim:
Chronicles” announcement preceding the launch of what will become Version 1 of the
EcoSim, when all early version EcoSim mechanics form full game loops.

Resources & Prime Jewels, which are covered more deeply in this article, are two of the
cornerstones of the early EcoSim gameplay. Although we will not dive deeper into all of the
practicalities of the EcoSim in this article, rest assured buildings, logistics (Production,
Transport, Storage) and other accommodating features (Civilians, Cydroids, Jewels and
much more) connecting everything together are all important parts of the Version 1 EcoSim
and will be detailed in later articles.

Resources
Whether you want to deliver and share an experience, play fully immersed inside the virtual
world with digital assets and items, display ads, promote external games, sell physical goods
via digital store fronts, share a link to external experiences, or create other general web1 e-
commerce products or services, you are going to need land with buildings and
infrastructure of some sort.

How would you get these foundational facilities?

Well, it all starts with RESOURCES.

Thus, Resources are a fundamental component of the EcoSim, kick-starting local and global
supply chains, taking real-world attributes to enable the creation of objects within our
metaverse. Just like in the real world, there will be many Resources in Earth 2, and multiple
​stages and ways to discover, replicate, and craft them into building blocks for different
 purposes.

Most recently, Silver and Copper Resources were released for Players to claim on their
properties, and stake Essence via our Earth 2 Player Resource Validation (E2PRV) system.
21 additional Resources will now follow and progressively be released via E2PRV for
claiming, on a 1 Resource per 1-2 week schedule after the first new Resource is revealed. All
Resources in Earth 2 will have utility via the EcoSim and will be required to craft Building
Blocks for future EcoSim assets and many other types of objects. The Discovery Tiers for
these confirmed Resources and their respective Prime Jewels are listed below!

The Jewels have also received an important update to align their look and feel more closely
with the Primary Resources they are associated with. The new look still follows the
previous colour scheme but has the added benefit of being able to accommodate for future
planned utilities and better fits their upcoming representation for inside E2V1.

Raw Materials from Resources will be critical for any kind of progression in the EcoSim and
we anticipate they will be a highly traded asset inside of Earth 2, in terms of volume.

With the initial release of Resources, several related gameplay features will intentionally be
excluded in order to provide a simpler, more accessible early-access version to Players on
the current Earth 2 web version. These excluded features will gradually be introduced
especially in E2V1, altering the mechanics and significantly increasing the complexity of
Resource discovery and acquisition. Examples of the components scheduled for later
release include localised inventories and logistics requirements.

It is important to remember that there will be gameplay activities to suit everyone in Earth
2, from “Players” to “Holders” to every-day “Users”. The Resource system is one of many
different gameplay pathways that Players may choose to explore and specialise in. Finding
an area of interest in Earth 2 is key to a fun, successful, and rewarding Player experience.
However, most if not all paths within Earth 2 will start easy and progressively become more
difficult to master, enabling anyone to experiment and explore. This type of gameplay
pathway empowers anyone to improve their stats or expand their virtual portfolio by
yielding higher rewards the more they choose to invest time and implement advanced
strategies in the EcoSim.

Discovering & Obtaining Resources
Most Resources in Earth 2 will be situated deep underground, much like Resources in the
real world. As E-ther evaporates from the ground, it carries with it the binary data of
Resources present in the land. This binary data is measured in Occurrence Units.

The binary data contained within E-ther is not easily interpreted by the Mentar which is
only able to weakly read the Occurrence Units of Discovery Tier 1 Resources (refer to image
above) whilst it is collecting the evaporated E-ther. To do this, Prime Jewels for the
corresponding Resources are required to be slotted into the Mentar. This enables the binary
​data to flow through and the Occurrence Units to be deciphered by the Mentar, from the
 various binary data strings.

While the Mentar is able to read the binary data Occurrence Units contained in E-ther, its
reading capabilities are very poor and much of the data is lost in the E-ther collection
process.

Prospecting Cydroids
Due to the inefficient reading capabilities of the Mentar, alternative methods for decoding
the binary data had to be innovated in order to access higher Discovery tiers of Resources
and to optimise reading efficiency.

Raiders would soon discover that their Raid Cydroids could be modified by fusing Prime
Jewels into them which allow them to read binary data, owing to the intrinsic Cydroid
technology already enabling them to detect and capture E-ther. Many attempts using Prime
Jewels to re-engineer the Raid Cydroids did in fact fail and it was quickly noted that each
Cydroid type had a Jewel colour it could be successfully fused with.

Depending on the tier and quality of the Prime Jewel the Raid Cydroid was fused with it and
in the process was granted chances of allowing more dedicated Resource slots. Fusing a
Brilliant Jewel gave additional perks of more Power cells slots. Other possible benefits are
yet unknown.

The successfully modified Cydroids were able to implement the reading technology far
better than the Mentar itself. However, each Cydroid type was only specialised in
discovering and reading one specific type of Resource. Reading and capturing a Resource’s
Occurrence Units occurs at the point of E-ther collection, extracting the Occurrence Units
Data directly into the Cydroids memory.

Thus Prime Jewels were proven necessary to modify Raid Cydroids granting the additional
function of Prospecting, to read Resource Occurrence Units, and at a higher, more accurate
rate than the Mentar. Results from early experimentation also revealed that the additional
Resource slots obtained could support supplementary Jewels enhancing the effects of the
fused Prime Jewel. Through this experimentation of Cydroid modifications and Jewel fusion,
the blueprints for Prospecting Cydroids were invented.

It quickly became clear that Prospecting Cydroids would be key to discovering higher
Discovery Tier Resources on Player-owned land. As the demand for Prospecting Cydroids
increased, the later Prospecting Cydroids were manufactured and built for purpose, rather
than modified from existing Raid Cydroids. However, these purpose-built Prospecting
Cydroids would not have the ability to raid thus creating many new potential scenarios for
Landowners to consider.

Manufactured Prospecting Cydroids will not require a Jewel to be fused.
​Additionally, manufacturing Prospecting Cydroids from scratch requires quite a substantial
amount of Raw material and Building blocks. Prospecting Cydroids with lower rarity
require less Raw material when manufactured meaning the lower the rarity associated with
the Ethereal Cydroid, the easier it will be to manufacture a non-Ethereal class Cydroid.
To improve their strategies, Landowners were faced with more decisions, such as whether
their Prospecting Raid Cydroids should be sent to other properties to raid E-ther and obtain
“foreign” Occurrence Units, or be kept on their own property to collect and read their own
Occurrence Units.

And if these Cydroids were to remain on the property, then should it be the Mentar or the
Prospecting Raid Cydroid that collects the E-ther?

Beyond the questions of how Occurrence Units should be obtained, Landowners would also
need to decide which Resource(s) to prioritise.

Given that Occurrence Unit reading occurs at the point of E-ther collection, Landowners
would also need to decide the amount of E-ther and which Resources would be targeted by
the Mentar and each of the Prospecting Raid Cydroids.

Experimenting with different strategies is key for Landowners to discover what works best
for them. E.g. aim for more E-ther by having the Mentar that is packed with E-ther boosting
Jewels collect more E-ther, or let Prospecting Cydroids collect E-ther to prioritise Resource
yield.

Daily E-ther brings with it new Occurrence Units to extract. Once the binary data is
extracted, the Prospecting Cydroid will be required to dispense the collected E-ther to the
global balance for the E-ther & Occurrence Units to be accounted for. E-ther and Occurrence
Units collected by the Mentar will immediately be accounted for, without the need to
dispense.

Frequency & Occurrence Units
Most Players will already be aware that Resources are distributed in certain areas with High
(HF) or “Unknown” (UF) Frequency and that these frequency categories are assigned per
property. The actual distribution of Resources will occur in the near future where each land
tile will be assigned a frequency per Resource.

For example, a 750 tile property will have a Frequency assigned to each of the individual
750 tiles. Furthermore, Players will be able to see 5 Frequency Categories: Deficient, Sparse,
Moderate, Rich and Copious, the latter being what is currently known as High Frequency.

A property will always be assigned a dominant frequency (E.g. Copious Frequency) but the
individual tiles making up the property will still have their own frequency categories
assigned to them, and potentially even a few tiles with no Resource frequency at all. In other
words, a property that has been assigned Copious Frequency for a Resource will still consist
of tiles that each range from no frequency all the way up to Copious.
​A property that has been assigned Moderate Frequency for a Resource will consist of tiles
 that each range from no frequency to Moderate Frequency only. While a property that is
 “Copious” will not likely consist of tiles which are all assigned the Copious Frequency, they
 will still have more Occurrence Units in the ground than a property of a lower Frequency
 category.

For now, Landowners can only see if a Resource exists on their Property. Neither the precise
frequency category nor the Occurrence Unit information will be available initially, except for
those whose properties have been assigned HF (a.k.a Copious Frequency).

Players will be able to discover different Resource Discovery tiers by participating in the
E2PRV Scheme (claiming) to unveil and confirm the frequency of Resources attributed to
their properties. However, Prospecting Cydroids may also be able to help with this process
in the future as well.

The ability to access Occurrence Units insights requires the employment of a Geologist
Civilian (yet to be released).

Although it is possible to replicate Resources via the Weaver without knowing the
Occurrence Units and without a Geologist Civilian, to optimise the replication process it is
highly recommended to synthesise a Geologist Civilian to gain access to these insights.

Read more about the Weaver & Replication process below.

The Read Process: Yielding Occurrence Units

The quantities of Occurrence Units contained within the evaporated E-ther fluctuate on a
daily basis. This volatility can be stabilised and increased by using Jewels to boost the read
quality of the “Reader”, Prospecting Cydroid or Mentar, of a particular Resource.

As each prospecting Cydroid will need to collect its own E-ther, and filter and read the
binary data through the slotted Prime Jewel, it may be quite difficult to extract the full
amount of Daily Occurrence Units of a Resource. To attempt it, a Landowner would need to
allow the Prospecting Cydroid to collect all the E-ther, as well as boost the reading quality
with the optimal configuration of slotted Jewels.

Landowners owning modified Raid Cydroids are also able to obtain Occurrence Units from
other Players’ properties by Raiding their E-ther when using a Prospecting Cydroid able to
discover the Resource that exists within the target property.

The collected Occurrence Unit data must either be immediately used in the Weaver for
Resource Replication, or stored in Holobuildings for later use (detailed below).

Players will also have the option to improve a Prospecting Cydroid’s reading ability by
directly injecting Essence into the Power Cell of the Cydroid while it is recharging, thereby
creating a temporary boost effect enabling the Cydroid to consume/extract more
Occurrence Unit data than what is actually present in the ground. This temporary effect
​requires Essence to be irreversibly consumed. Strategy and balancing mechanics are
 involved when utilising this type of boost and will be further elaborated on in a future
 announcement.

As mentioned above, to obtain an approximate understanding of the daily availability of O.U.
(Occurrence Units) and m3 (cubic meters), Players must train a civilian in geological
knowledge, The Geologist. Furthermore, by equipping the Geologist skill to the Cydroid E-
ther Reckoner, Players can unlock the new Mastery Head Reckoner granting the insights of
O.U. and m3 when yielding the Resources from the ground and how much is stored in the
Holobuilding storages.

Adding the Geologist skill to the Raw Material Tailor managing the Weaver grants insights
into how long time the replication process will take and how much m3 it will result in.

This allows Players to gain valuable information about the Resources present in the ground,
yielded by the Prospect Cydroids/Mentar and stored in the holobuildings and replication
outcomes by the Weaver.

It’s important to note that without the Geologist skill in these areas, Players can still
perform the necessary processes, but they won’t have access to the specific quantity
information at each step.

Holobuilding Storage

All Holobuildings have the ability to store Resource Occurrence Units. Players who already
have Holobuildings built on their properties will have Occurrence Units already stored
when Resource launches. Up to 1000 m3 Holobuilding space per property will be eligible
for the retroactive Occurrence Units reward and each m3 has the capacity to store a certain
amount of Occurrence Units (To be disclosed).

However, the Occurrence Unit storage capacity will not be restricted to 1000 m3 of
Holobuilding space once Occurrence Units are officially released and actively yielding.
Players may opt to construct more space to increase the Occurrence Unit storage capacity of
their Holobuildings at this point in time and beyond.

The Holobuilding storage capacity is local to the property and Occurrence Units cannot be
transferred to other properties.

Detached holobuildings will still act as one local storage for the property, any m3 existing on
the property is totaled up to the properties total O.U. storage capacity. Once the Occurrence
Units are in the property’s local reserve, the Player will be able to see how much
O.U. space that is stored and remains as well as the amount of m3 would equate to if
running it through the Weaver.

Removing an already constructed Holobuilding from a property could risk the Player’s local
storage capacity to go below what is required for the amount of Occurrence Units already
stored. In the instance where the local storage drops below the amount of Occurrence Units
​currently stored, the equivalent amount of Occurrence Units to the storage space removed
 will be discarded.

Likewise, if the maximum local storage capacity is reached and more Occurrence Units are
attempted to be deposited, these Occurrence Units will immediately be lost.

The Head Reckoner will play a crucial role for Players to gain insights on their local storage
capacity to ensure they maintain enough storage space for the Occurrence Units they wish
to collect.

Replication Process: Raw Materials (m3)
Collected Occurrence Unit data can be imported into the Weaver and used to create the
physical Raw Material. This is better known as the replication process.

In contrast to the reading process, the Weaver is not able to replicate Raw Materials
instantly. The capacity of a Weaver to replicate Raw Materials within a 24 hour period is
determined by the Weaver’s runtime (including the required cooldown time) and
production pace. Both the runtime and production pace can be improved and optimised.
The base level Weaver can only replicate one Resource at a time and the Player will need to
prioritise which Raw Materials to produce first. In the future, it will become possible to
build more Weavers to further increase Raw Material production and enable different Raw
Materials to be replicated simultaneously.

Prime Jewels are once again key to unlocking replication, as the process involves the
Occurrence Units to flow through the Prime Jewel of the corresponding Resource in order to
print the desired raw material.

To optimise the Weaver’s replication pace, a Player will need to reconfigure the Weaver
with different combinations of Jewels which in turn boost the Resource production. This,
reconfiguration between raw material productions, can be done manually or with the help
of the Raw Material Tailor Civilian auto-reconfiguring the Weaver. The Raw Material Tailor
will also enable insights for how much time a Resource will take to replicate and how much
volume (m3) it will produce.

The Weaver’s replication technology is advanced resulting in long cooldowns. A small
operational team of Civilians can be employed to learn the production process and utilise
the Weaver’s full replication capacity. As the Civilian team gains more experience with
replicating a particular Resource, they will naturally learn how that Resource behaves when
being printed and optimises the Weaver’s runtime for that Resource using this knowledge
and experience.

Storing & Selling Raw Material m3
When Resources finally take their physical form through the Replication process, they will
occupy a certain amount of m3 (Cubic metre) space. At the beginning of the EcoSim this
capacity to store Raw Materials will be quite limited inside the initial buildings. Once
​progressing in the EcoSim the Player can decide to expand this storage to their required
 levels.

Raw materials will be tradeable in the Bazaar. Logistics will be a key requirement for
transporting Raw Materials to buyers however, inside E2V1 (Future Feature).

A few Q&As
Q: How do I collect Occurence Units ?

A: Resource Occurrence Unit data is obtained when E-ther is collected. Either through the
Mentar slotted with a Prime Jewel or by utilising Prospecting Cydroids. However,
Prospecting Cydroids will be required to Dispense the E-ther into the Mentar before the
Occurrence Units are accounted for.

Q: What is the difference when yielding Occurrence Units from the Mentar & Prospecting
Cydroids

A. The Mentar can only read Resources belonging to Discovery Tier 1 and at a reduced yield
rate. However, the Mentar also has the ability to read multiple Resources if several Prime
Jewels are slotted into it.

Prospecting Cydroids are specialised in one specific Resource though the yield rate is much
higher than the Mentar’s and specific Prospecting Cydroids are required to yield Resources
in Discovery Tier 2 and up.

Q: What is the difference between manufactured Prospecting Cydroids vs Raid Cydroids
upgraded to Prospecting Cydroids

A. Raid (Ethereal) Cydroids fused with a Prime Jewel will keep its raiding functionality
making them able to raid not only E-ther but also Occurrence Units from Landfield targets
while potentially keeping other utility and abilities they may receive over time.

Purpose built (manufactured) Prospecting Cydroids will not require a Jewel to be
constructed but rather Raw materials and can only harvest Occurrence units from the
landowners own property as they do not have the ability to collect E-ther from properties
they are not tethered with.

Q: What impacts the amount of Occurrence Units I can collect ?

A: The Occurrence Units value collectible from a property depends on the Availability in the
ground and the performance of the Mentar or Prospecting Cydroid collecting the
Occurrence Units.

The Resource availability in the ground is affected by the tile’s attributes:

Players will be able to discover different Resource Discovery tiers by participating in the
E2PRV Scheme (claiming) to unveil the frequency of Resources attributed to their
​properties. However, Prospecting Cydroids may have the ability to discover Resources in
 the future as well.

The performance of the Mentar or Prospecting Cydroid is affected by:

Q: Can I transfer my Occurence Units to other properties?

No, the Occurrence Units stored in local Holobuildings will be locked to that property. When
Selling a Holobuilding (removing it from the property) the Occurrence Units will be lost, as
Occurrence Units stored in Holobuildings are not transferable between different properties
and Players.

Q: What do I need to do to start replicating Resources into Raw Materials?

A: Occurrence Units of a Resource and the corresponding Prime Jewel slotted into the
weaver. E.g. Oil Occurence Units will require to slot the Black Jewel

Q: What impacts how much m3 I can produce with my collected Occurence Units ?

A: The Weaver’s runtime capacity before needing to cool down and the production pace.
Both parameters can be improved via Civilians, Jewel boost, Weaver Upgrades and more
with specific details to be released.

E.g. Slotting Jewels increases the production pace.

Q: What is required to store Raw materials?

A. When the Resource Replication feature is launched, the Player will gain more info about
the structure and the various extra utilities this building will carry including the storage
capacity for replicated Raw Materials.

Q: Do I need to transport my Raw Materials when selling or constructing?

A. Logistics requirements will not be implemented with the early release of Resources,
replication and fabrication. However, will be added later to increase deeper Gameplay.


E2PRV: Chance To Appeal Claims Marked For Rejection
June 23, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – The first round of Resource Validations is coming to a
close with the vast majority of Gold, Oil, Coal, Iron Ore and Limestone claims being
approved for distribution on Earth 2 to date! Many Players have already made incredible
returns through the Essence Staking feature of the E2PRV system, as well as submitted
successful claims which resulted in their properties being attributed the claimed
Resource/s, something that will become very important as the EcoSim continues to roll out.

Although the CAT (Claims Approval Team) have done a fantastic job of evaluating claims -
and reviewing them- unfortunately the remaining claims still “Under Investigation” have all
been marked as invalid and are pending rejection. It was promising to see that most Players
​successfully followed the guidelines for creating a successful claim and that the minor
 number of remaining claims marked for rejection are by large due to claims that were
 submitted with either insufficient or inaccurate supporting evidence.
We specifically designed and implemented the ‘Assurance Fee’ as a safeguard to help
improve the quality of submitted claims and ultimately avoid any rejections and subsequent
loss of this fee and any Essence staked by Players. Although there are only a minor number
of claims flagged for rejection, it was still concerning that some Players ignored the
guidelines and the purpose behind this system which was first and foremost to minimise
any loss and maximise gains for Players.

While we have taken great measures and spent significant human resources to review
claims marked for rejection, we understand that there is a possible margin for error with
missed or inconsistent reviews. From the offset of the E2PRV system it was made clear that
Earth 2 reserves the right to reject any claim at its own discretion. So as much as we would
love to wrap up the original E2PRV claims at once, instead of taking the easier option and
exercising our discretional right to reject all remaining claims and move on, we decided to
give Players one last opportunity to submit an appeal for their pending-rejection claims.

This appeal will give Players who believe that their claim is in fact valid and should be
approved a chance to bring their claim to the attention of the CAT one last time without
their claims simply being rejected. This opportunity is only for original claims (gold, iron,
limestone, oil, coal) which are still under investigation, meaning they have been marked for
rejection. The appeal is NOT a chance for Players to submit additional evidence and should
only be made by those who are certain that they have:

Many claims pending rejection simply did not provide sufficient evidence, or the evidence
provided was valid but the location did not correspond to that of their property.

To provide transparency and clarity so that Players understand the type of details we have
had to deal with on pending rejected claims, here are some examples of the insufficient /
invalid evidence that have been commonly provided by Players in claims currently marked
for rejection :

Please remember these examples are just that – examples only. Each location and claimed
Resource will require information and evidence specific to those factors to be successfully
validated.

We would like to give Players as much time as possible to review without being rushed.
Therefore, Players will have 6 weeks to make an appeal for any claims still Under
Investigation.

The hard deadline for making appeals is Sunday the 6th of August, 2023. Please note that if
an appeal is granted, the claim will be approved. If the appeal is rejected, the claim will
remain under investigation and be rejected in the final mass rejections update. You can
keep track of your appeals by checking your Claims Manager for claim status updates.
​Depending on any backlog, there will be a period of time after appeals close so that the CAT
 may complete any approvals for successful appeals.

To submit your Resource Claim Rejection Appeal, please follow the Google Form link below:

https://forms.gle/QDsM9jM4LHEDRLzJ7

Before you submit an appeal claim, check that:

If any of the above conditions have not been met, your appeal will not be successful.



E2PRV: Claim Approval Guidelines for Copper and Silver Resources
June 23, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Before we get too far along with the new Resource
releases, we wanted to reiterate guidelines to our community and provide clear examples of
what we find acceptable or not. With the lower reward for successful claims, this is about
Players wanting to confirm a resource on their property and the community ‘collaborating’
to validate those claims.

The CAT has finished processing all Copper and Silver Resource claims that have been
submitted to date, with the first lot of approvals to start today! Players participating in the
E2PRV system and Essence staking will be pleased to know that moving forward, our
dedicated CAT will be aiming to execute approvals more regularly, ensuring claims for new
resource types are approved in a more consistent manner (although there still may be a
backlog from time to time, depending on how many Players use the system).

UPDATE ON COPPER & SILVER CLAIMS
The current backlog of Copper and Silver claims will be cleared by the CAT shortly. These
claims have all been evaluated and are only waiting for final approvals and rejections. While
we have a vast majority of Copper and Silver claims which will be approved on a regular
basis, a significant number are still pending rejection. This delay in finalising claims was
caused by the large number of claims that were submitted with insufficient or invalid
evidence.

We have previously stated that Player’s should follow guidelines we have shared on how to
submit valid claims, rather than reference claims which have already been approved. This is
because the method used to distribute Resources based on validated claims results in
automatic approval of any claims that fall under a defined area for a Resource occurrence
(e.g. mine site). So some claims which provide little or no evidence still have the potential to
be approved because they happen to fall within the defined area of a validated claim.

However, Players cannot rely on their claims being approved in this way and should always
ensure their claim is submitted with accompanying geographically accurate and credible
evidence.
​If you don’t have that pioneering blood in you or are just not confident about creating a
 claim, you can always check the claim heatmap or resource heatmap to locate areas where
 Silver, Copper or other new resource types and/or claims may exist.

GUIDELINE FOR CLAIM SUBMISSION

To help our Players, here is a guideline of what evidence types will be accepted and what
evidence types will be rejected. Sometimes there are special cases and the CAT will always
have precedence in determining what will constitute a successful/unsuccessful claim.
Following these examples will give your claim the highest chance of approval.

Accepted Evidence Types:

All evidence must state the Resource occurrence location as corresponding to the claim
location and the Resource being claimed. Supplementary evidence is required when there is
any ambiguous or contradictory evidence provided within the above sources. Some sources
do not provide specific enough information. While we do accept the above sources
predominantly, they are often cross-checked to ensure the information is accurate.
Therefore, Players must always ensure the information contained is factually,
geographically accurate.

Rejected Evidence Types:

In addition to the above clarifications, we have provided some examples of current claims
below, which have been marked for rejection due to insufficient or invalid evidence.

Please note that at this stage, claims marked for rejection have intentionally been left as
“Open” status to allow the submitting Player to withdraw(remove) the claim themselves.

Furthermore, all Silver and Copper claims which have already been updated to “Under
Investigation” status but are marked for rejection will be reimbursed by the CAT.

Other claims submitted before the 24th of June, 2023, which are still “Open” may be
removed by the Player. If a claim with insufficient/invalid evidence is not withdrawn by the
Player within a reasonable time, those claims will be updated to “Under Investigation” and
rejected in due course.

Please note that this only applies to claims submitted prior to the 24th of June, 2023. After
this date, all claims will be processed as per the set procedure and will be updated to Under
Investigation upon evaluation, allowing the CAT to move through the claims at maximum
efficiency and get valid claims approved quickly.

Now that the reward and approval turn around on new claims should be more consistent,
we strongly encourage Players to continue collaborating with each other but please be
mindful when using shared information that the evidence is specific to your claim location.
​Optional Campaign: Pre-E2V1 Resource Solution for Wood, Water & Sand
 July 5 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Wood, Water and Sand are 3 of the original 8 Resources
 officially announced for the Earth 2 EcoSim. They are crucial EcoSim Resources but unlike
 the other 5 Resources which have already been released through the E2PRV (Player
 Resource Validation) system and made available for Players to claim, Wood, Water and
 Sand will be distributed via E2V1 directly.
Until E2V1 is released, we have designed a special – optional – campaign for those Players
participating in the various pre-Resource generation initiatives, to honour our promise of
backdated Resource Occurrence Unit (OU) storage in Holobuildings for these 3 Resources .

Backdated Resources Campaign for Water, Wood & Sand

There will be a specific campaign dedicated to ensuring Wood, Water and Sand Resources
storage will be awarded to all eligible Players who are actively participating in the
backdated Resources initiative by slotting relevant Jewels and constructing Holobuildings
on their properties.

As is well known among the community, Players must actively slot a Prime Jewel into their
Mentar in order to start gathering backdated Occurrence Units for the Resources released to
date which are associated with that Jewel.

Our special backdating campaign for Wood, Water and Sand adapts this pre-existing
requirement as slotting the relevant Prime Jewel is something Players would have had to do
anyway in order to start gathering OUs for the respective Resource.

This special campaign will run for 7 weeks, until 11:59pm UTC on the 23rd of August, 2023
(previously 11:59pm UTC on August 16, 2023), in order to provide Players (especially those
with a large portfolio of properties) the time and opportunity to slot their desired Prime
Jewels into the relevant properties.

Please remember, this special campaign is completely OPTIONAL and is a reward tailored
towards Players who were already taking advantage of the backdated Resource Occurrence
Unit initiative. Players can choose NOT to participate in this special campaign, and STILL
receive Water, Wood and/or Sand on their property if their property is in the appropriate
location for those Resources allocated inside E2V1 upon its release.

To be eligible for the backdated storage of Wood, Water and/or Sand Occurrence Units, the
following criteria must be met.

Between now and August 23, 2023 (previously August 16, 2023), each participating
Property:

Players will need to utilise and slot their Prime Jewels on any properties they own which do
not yet have any Resources detected to take advantage of this 50% bonus.

Between now and August 23, 2023 (previously August 16, 2023), each Holobuilding:
​If all of the above criteria are met successfully then Occurrence Units for the Resource
 associated with the slotted Prime Jewel will be fully backdated once the Earth 2 Resource
 Generation system is fully released via the distribution of Occurrence Units. Therefore, in
 the future, when OUs are distributed, the system will detect and compute backdated OUs in
 the available storage for all qualifying properties.

This opportunity will still work for Players after August 23, 2023 (previously August 16,
2023), however, properties slotted and built on or after this date will not receive the full
historic backdate to 2021 but rather initiate their backdated date from the day they slotted
and built the HB.

So be sure to leave your Prime Jewel slotted and any Holobuildings constructed until such
time OUs are distributed. If any or both are removed, the backdating period is wiped and
restarts from when all the above criteria are once again met.

IMPORTANT TIPS :

Side Notes

We are not guaranteeing that trees located in E1 will be in the exact same place inside E2V1,
especially if they are isolated trees. However, as E2V1 is a pristine version of Earth there will
also be trees in areas you might not expect especially urban areas that have been developed
by man, inside E2V1. So there will not be a lack of trees, in fact from what we have
experienced there may even be more tree-spread than on E1.

With regards to water, we have invested a considerable amount of time ensuring that water
locations are accurate inside E2V1 so that the vast majority of the world’s water source
locations are accurately reflected. That being the case, please remember that Earth is
incredibly large so there may be some noticeable absences, especially concerning smaller
and/or newer bodies of water.



New Look Revealed for Jewels and the Jewel Inventory!
July 22, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – For the first time since the release of Jewels on the Earth
2 platform, the entire Jewel system including the Jewel inventory and the Jewels themselves
have had a brand new facelift to better reflect the updated branding of our website and
upcoming plans for the representation of Jewels inside E2V1.

Jewels are tradable digital assets that can randomly spawn from Player-owned properties
without any additional cost. They can currently be slotted into Mentars for various boost
effects, crafted into different Jewels and Jewel qualities (Cracked, Cloudy, Common, Clear,
Luminous and Brilliant), and traded on the Bazaar for E$ (Earth 2 currency that is
withdrawable to fiat; E$ 1 = $1USD). With the progressive release of the Resources layer of
the EcoSim, as well as the upcoming Cydroid Management system, the extent of Jewel utility
will further be revealed.
​New Look and Jewel Recap

The new look Earth 2 Jewels will fit better within the E2V1 3D environment. Each Jewel has
been specifically designed and created by the Earth 2 art team to aesthetically represent the
type of Jewel it is and the Resource it is related to. You will notice that each Jewel has one of
3 different textures which are also determined by the Resource; crystalline (transparent),
polished (metallic) and coarse.

Not only are these Jewels more beautiful and more realistic to look at, but we find them to
be more desirable and that’s even before taking into consideration the boosts and benefits
that these Jewels can provide Players long term.

Every Jewel that spawns from a Player’s property is intrinsically linked to a specific
Resource and depending on the Resource it is linked to, each Jewel has their own
captivating look. Check out the fresh 41 new looks for Jewels below:

Jewel Inventory Interface Upgrade

The Jewel Inventory’s new UI has been designed and built to accommodate the various
utilities that Jewels have and will have within Earth 2. In particular, the upcoming Cydroid
Management system which will allow Players to slot Jewels into their Cydroids for different
boost effects.

The updated interface gives a better, clearer overview of a Player’s Inventory of Jewels:

In addition to the standard Sort By and Filter options, Players have the option to view all
Jewels in the inventory:

These options make slotting easier for Players, especially with the new slotting functionality
which enables Players to select an entire stack of the same Jewel type into a property’s
Mentar and the best Jewel from that stack will automatically fill the slot. This will save a lot
of time for Players as they are no longer required to sift through their inventory for the best
Jewel with the best boosts / effects.

The rare and incredibly difficult-to-craft Brilliant Jewels also have a yellow icon rather than
the standard aqua, to help distinguish them easily from the Luminous Jewels.

These visual and functional updates ensure that Jewels are being better represented in
Earth 2 for upcoming and future plans for Jewels.

Players who are interested in participating in the Resources aspect of the EcoSim should
begin familiarising themselves with the Jewels currently in their inventory and which
Resources are associated with them. Exciting new updates coming soon will give Players a
holistic view of their in-game assets, across their entire Player portfolio (not just per
property) and help them keep track of their EcoSim assets.
​Make sure to keep an eye on our socials and join our Discord server so you don’t miss out
 on all the latest Earth 2 news!



Resources Overview
July 23, 2023 – Sydney Australia – Earth 2 has released a new update to help Players get an
overview of how many Resources they have across their land portfolio. This Resource
Overview will summarise and display 5 Resource types from D1 (excluding Water, Wood
and Sand which will be confirmed inside E2V1) then include future Resource types from D2
and upward as each of the new 21 Resource types are revealed.


To find out which Resources your properties have managed to detect so far simply:




To see where other Players have discovered a particular Resource type simply:

This update is part of Earth 2’s goal to provide Players with a better overview of their
various digital assets, which will include some interesting new statistics in the next
overview release as we move into the next phase of the EcoSim. Updates like the Resources
Overview are being developed concurrently while other members of the Earth 2 team
continue working on other larger upcoming features. The Resources Overview page will
continue to be updated and become an even more useful point of reference when Resource
generation begins.

The Resources overview page in the Player profile is only visible to the owner of the
properties, so make sure to login to check out how many Resources you currently have and
the number of tiles they are distributed on!

RESOURCES OVERVIEW – MORE DETAILS

This new addition to the Player profile provides a comprehensive breakdown, not only of
how many tiles in your portfolio are attributed with a particular Resources, but how many
of those tiles belong to each Resource Frequency Category (currently displaying either HF
or UF). So Players will be able to see exactly which Resources are discoverable on the land
they own, and how many land tiles will be able to contribute to the output of Resource
Occurrence Units for the overall Player account.

Every time a Resource is released in Earth 2 and Players are able to successfully validate it
via our E2PRV system, that Resource will appear on this page, along with details of the exact
tiles attributed with that Resource. Those who do not get the Resource distributed on their
property via E2PRV may have a Resource distributed on their property in the future, either
via E2V1 (for sand, wood and water) or via direct game design distribution.

Having also recently released our updated Jewel inventory, Players are able to make a
strategic decision on which Prime Jewels they may require more of. Below is a handy chart
​of which Jewels correspond to the Resources released to date. Hidden Resources and Jewels
 mean that the Resource has not yet been released and will instead be revealed in upcoming
 announcements whenever a new Resource is released.

Thank you for reading about these new additions to the Player profile page and be sure to
keep an eye out for new updates via Earth 2 Socials!



Resource Release: Zinc + Bauxite
July 27, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 quietly released Bauxite and Zinc recently which
are now officially available to claim via the Earth 2 Player Resource Validation (E2PRV)
System. If you own property in Earth 2 and believe you have any of these Resources present
in your land, submit a claim! You can win some Essence and the Resource distributed on
your property if your claim is approved.

These newly released Resources will also appear in the brand new Resources Overview tab
on players’ profiles, as they become attributed to and discoverable on their properties
(check out our announcement here).

Much like the real world, we want to design a platform where people will be inclined to
trade with one another in order to obtain the raw materials they may be missing to create
the Building Blocks they need, especially for some of the more advanced Building Blocks.
And just like the real world, different people will secure access to different Resource types.

Therefore, as our EcoSim continues to expand and Raw Materials become tradable between
Players on Earth 2, we’re excited about facilitating these Player-to-Player trades and the
resultant diversification of Resource holdings between Players.

Raw Materials and Building Blocks will be tradable via the Bazaar and Players may sell their
Raw Materials (and Building Blocks) for E$, and possibly sell or trade for other things in the
future. Remember though, trading will include a logistic aspect as well, meaning Players will
need to transport their Raw Materials or Buildings blocks once purchased whether done by
their own means or hiring others.Starting from Silver and Copper, each of the many new
incoming Resource types will be open to claim and stake Essence via the E2PRV system.
Because most Players will not be receiving these new Resources automatically
(unless they get lucky and own land close to another Player’s successful claim), the initial
distribution of these new Resources are truly up for grabs for all Players, new or old, who
have been or aim to be strategic with the location of their properties corresponding to real-
world resource occurrences and who have put in the additional effort to secure these new
resource types on their land via the E2PRV system.

By being active and participating in the E2PRV system, these Players are potentially putting
themselves in a good position to trade with other Players in the future who might have an
abundance of other Resources but need other rarer Resources for higher tech tree items.
We’d also like to remind Players that Raw Materials and Building Blocks are very important
​cornerstones of the EcoSim and will be part of what enables Players to create most things
 inside of Earth 2, so they are a big deal for almost anything being created or anything usable
 inside Earth 2!

You can find a few teaser details about the two latest released Resource types, Bauxite and
Zinc including a little background on the Resource, what it’s often used for, the Jewel that
primes the Resource, the Cydroid that can detect and collect its OUs, the land Tier required
and some, not all, of the Building Blocks the Raw Materials replicated from the Resource
contribute toward!

Resources Released: (as at 27 July, 2023)

The primary source of aluminium in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanising Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

We realise that this may be the first time Players have been able to lay eyes on some of the
Building Block icons, so it is important to note that the above Building Blocks make up just a
tiny fraction of the total number of Building Blocks we’ve actually designed to date.

Keep following to learn more about the EcoSim Building Blocks including new types, how to
make them and what they will do. For now, take a look at the updated chart that shows the
new Prime Jewels connected to the Resources released to date:

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table to help Players understand which ores/minerals (if any) will be
accepted for a particular Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided
​and any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines
 set out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
 system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
 to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
 who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.



Profile Overview V1
July 28, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to announce the new Profile Overview
V1 feature which forms part of our ongoing commitment to provide Players with a better
overview of their various digital items. This is a helpful update to the Profile page which
allows Players to quickly gain valuable insight into the breakdown of their accumulated
Earth 2 digital items and more.

PROFILE OVERVIEW

The Earth 2 EcoSim, including various analytical features, will continue to expand as we lay
the foundations for this complex, Player-driven ecosystem. With it, more and more utility-
driven digital items will be released which we predict will have a compounding effect on the
volume and complexity of building, utility and trade between Players.

This latest update to the Player profile page will support a smoother transition into
upcoming aspects of the EcoSim, and the expansion that comes with each subsequent
release. Most importantly, this update will ensure Players always have access to a
comprehensive overview of the current quantity and variety of the digital items they earn
and own. This could also be seen as the first iteration (V1) of the Player Inventory
Management system and having this information will allow Players to participate in the
EcoSim confidently, armed with the freedom of choices empowered by knowledge.

It is also important to note that the collection of trending data will start from the date of
deployment, upon the release of the Overview page, and will include all future relevant data
from this point in time onward.

While there are still hidden aspects of the EcoSim that will be revealed over time, the
updated Profile page will allow Players to have a holistic understanding of their portfolio
and digital items at their fingertips.

The Profile Overview V1 represents the beginning of the Player Inventory Management
system and details the quantity and potential value of a Player’s current and available
digital items. It can be found on the left-most tab, labelled “Overview” under the Player
Profile page.

The Overview page includes an overview graph detailing the total E-ther claimed, total E-
ther raided, and total Jewels claimed over the specified timeframe, across the Player’s entire
portfolio of properties. Players can view the overview graph as either a bar graph:
​Or a comparative line graph to track trends and see first hand how they are performing with
 various tasks:

The graph can also be adjusted to display the data depending on what you are wanting to
see.

The Timeframe filter allows a Player to view an overview of their account based on the day,
month, year or across all time:

The Data Frequency filter allows a Player to view an overview of their account at daily,
weekly, monthly, or yearly intervals:

The second part of the Overview page is a breakdown of the Player’s total Available Assets,
meaning the assets they currently own, and the collective market value/net worth of each
asset type.

To reveal details about what each colour in the bar represents, simply hover over the bar:

In addition to how much Essence is currently in your Player balance, the asset overview will
reveal how much Essence is currently held in Cydroid Power Cells (effectively Essence that is
staked into the Earth 2 EcoSim). This is helpful to know as Power Cell Essence can be
retrieved as needed, simply by depowering a Cydroid when fully charged.

SUMMARY OF THE OVERVIEW PAGE:

The current Player Asset overview is quite “simple” to begin with, but as more and more
digital items are released and built, more granular statistics will become available for
Players. This would include, for example, data per property and much more. This will allow
for more in-depth analyses of account performance and empower Players to make better
informed strategic decisions.



Red Energy for New T1 to Stop
July 28, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – The prosperous days of fusing Red Energy to acquire
new T1 land have come to an end for Earth 2 Pioneers. The Civilians want Red Energy for
themselves, for now.

Therefore, at some time on Monday, the 31st of July UTC the ability to purchase new T1
Land using Red Energy will cease to exist with the likes possibly never to be seen again. It is
possible that Red and the yet to be released Yellow Energy will have new utility though and
likely be required as part of the process in future land upgrades, such as T2 to T1, but we
are yet to learn more.

What we do know for now is that for active Players T1 and T2 land are the most secure way
to acquire a stable supply of E-ther long term before any of the disinflationary mechanisms
become activated.
​Resource Release: Tin
 August 1, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Tin is now available to claim via the Earth 2 Player
 Resource Validation (E2PRV) System! This is a great opportunity for any Players who own
 property in Earth 2 and believe they have this (or any currently released) Resources
 present in their land to submit a claim. By making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some
 Essence and the Resource distributed on their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.

If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

New Resources Released:

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

Previously Released Resources

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table to help Players understand which ores/minerals (if any) will be
accepted for a particular Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
​ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
 and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
 any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
 out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
 system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
 to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
 who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.



Resource Release: Nickel
August 8, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Here are a few details about the resource Nickel which
is now available to claim via the Earth 2 Player Resource Validation (E2PRV) System! This is
a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and believe they have this
(or any currently released) Resources present in their land to submit a claim. By making an
E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource distributed on their property
if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.

If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

New Resources Released:

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

Previously Released Resources

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

The primary source of aluminium in the world, Bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.
​Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table to help Players understand which ores/minerals (if any) will be
accepted for a particular Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.



REDUCED E2PRV REJECTION LOSS + GUIDELINE REMINDERS
August 08, 2023 – Sydney, Australia- This is an important update to the E2PRV system that
will affect all Players participating in submitting claims or staking Essence to claims.
Continue reading to find out more about the reduction of Essence loss when claims are
rejected, open claims that need to be re-assessed by Players as well as more examples of
how our current guidelines apply to invalid claims commonly being submitted.

Since the reduction of the Essence staking reward from 50% to 6.5%, along with the
introduction of a staking lock timer to give stakers the time to review claim evidence, the
Player backing portion of the E2PRV has been functioning well. We believe the
improvement has been good enough for us to start testing a reduction of the Essence
rejection loss from 100% to 20%.

If the overall quality of claims remains good and Players avoid staking weaker or invalid
claims due to a perceived reduction of risk, then the rejection loss rate may remain at 20%.
However, if there is an increase of Players staking bad claims (blind staking) then the
rejection loss of 20% may be increased until we find the ideal level.


Players looking for which claim to stake their Essence to often use the backing % to give a
clue as to the validity of a claim, as stronger claims tend to be backed to 100% much faster
than the weaker ones. We’d like to point out that although this can be a strong indicator, it is
​not a fool-proof way of checking claims and Players should still review claims carefully
 before staking.

We’re certain that participants of the E2PRV system are extremely pleased to learn that we
have updated the Essence percentage loss for new resource round claims (i.e. Copper and
Silver release onwards) from 100% loss of staked Essence if a claim is rejected, down to just
20%. This is a significant update for Players participating in the system and offers a little
more of a buffer to Players from claims that may appear to be valid but actually are not.

The Resource claims this reduction of staked Essence loss for Rejected claims applies
explicitly to:

This reduction also means the CAT will reject claims faster as opposed to letting them sit
there for Players to re-evaluate, which brings us to an IMPORTANT REMINDER : In June, the
CAT forewarned Players that if their new claim remained open for a long period of time and
did not pass to “Under Investigation”, it was likely flagged for rejection. Some Players
adhered to this warning and cancelled those claims while others have ignored the warning
and left their claims open.

Therefore, we are providing one final warning to both claim creators and stakers, if your
claim has remained open for a long period of time and especially if the claim existed before
the article released in June, then those claims are probably invalid. We suggest claim
creators review their claims and that stakers avoid staking Essence to those claims.

At the time the guideline update was shared, the CAT confirmed that Players would be given
a reasonable time to review such claims. It has since been over 6 weeks which we believe is
more than a reasonable amount of time to be able to review any existing claims. We will
provide one more week for Players to re-assess the quality of their claims and look at
cancelling such claims before processing rejections at the new 20% loss. Players should also
review their “Open” claims which have not been updated to “Under Review” for a few weeks,
as those too have most likely been flagged for rejection.

Guideline Reminders: Examples of Claims Currently Marked for Rejection

While the CAT has noticed a big improvement in the total number of invalid claims being
submitted since sharing our updated guidelines, we are still receiving many claims that are,
quite simply, invalid. A couple of the biggest reasons claims are marked as invalid are they
do not match the exact coordinates of a resource occurrence, or do not have the correct
resource present, or have neither the correct resource in the correct location. Both the
location and the Resource must match up with the property location in Earth 2.

The following are examples of claims for Copper, Silver, Bauxite and Zinc which have been
flagged for rejection due to being invalid and directly contradicting official guidelines
previously shared (see the announcement here).
​Example Bauxite claim
 Claim ID: 100598

Player Backing: 100%

Resource: Bauxite

Evaluation Notes: Invalid evidence provided that does not prove the occurrence of Bauxite
at the claim location:

Example Silver claim
Claim ID: 99267

Player Backing: 100%
Resource: Silver

Evaluation Notes: The claimant’s property is located over 25 kms away from the evidence
provided:

Example Zinc claim
Claim ID: 104710


Player Backing: 3%

Resource: Zinc

Evaluation Notes: The claim description makes broad statements about natural resources in
Las Vegas but does not provide any evidence to actually support this claim:

Example Copper claim
Claim ID: 104355

Player Backing: 20%

Resource: Copper

Evaluation Notes: Although claimant’s property is located within Al-Jizah (Giza) city:

As you can see from the above examples, sometimes claims that have high player backing
are still invalid and stakers should not rely on high backing percentages as a sign of a valid
claim. Rather, they should exercise due diligence and check the evidence provided and the
claim location before staking any Essence to a claim.

The E2PRV system was a new system and as such is subject to refinement and quality
assurance checks for claim evaluation procedures. However, Earth 2 has shared clear
guidelines for valid claims to support Players whilst upholding the primary purpose of the
E2PRV system which was originally created to distribute Resources to Player-owned
​properties that have those Resources present in the real world. The current claim
 evaluation procedure is robust and fair. It is only claims that are attempting to claim
 Resources in locations where the Resource does not exist, or Resources which are not
 accepted, or even released, by Earth 2 that are being flagged for rejection.

We cannot stress enough that Players are responsible for following the official guidelines
shared by Earth 2 when submitting an E2PRV claim. We cannot and will not be responsible
for claims that are submitted with complete disregard for the latest guidelines we have
shared, that were designed to ensure Players have the best chance of a successful
claim. Luckily most Players are now getting this right most of the time.

To reiterate on what was mentioned earlier in this article and to provide a clear warning,
we have noticed many “Open” status copper and silver claims submitted prior to the 24th of
June, 2023 have not yet been removed. These claims were flagged for rejection but
purposefully left as “Open” status to allow Players to remove their invalid claims and regain
any assurance fee and staked Essence. Any claims that were submitted prior to the 24th of
June but are still “Open” status should be removed so as not to be processed as “Rejected”
and lose the associated assurance fee and Essence.

Overall, the CAT will continue to be as lenient as possible. However, the level of leniency is
always at the discretion of the CAT and depends on many dynamic factors. Therefore
Players are still advised to closely follow the guidelines Earth 2 has shared to protect
themselves from potential claim rejection, and not rely on or attempt to predict the margin
of leniency the CAT will be practising.

* This article is referring to Resources released since Silver and Copper and onward, not
referring to Resources from the initial E2PRV release.



Brilliant Ability Revealed – the ‘COPY EFFECT’
August 10, 2023 – Sydney Australia – A Brilliant Jewel is a rare type of Jewel that has an
extremely small chance of being created when crafting Luminous Jewels in Earth 2. They
are often sold on the secondary market between Players for exuberant figures, but it is
important to remember that these prices are completely Player driven, Earth 2 does not set
prices for any Jewels sold via the Bazaar.
The secrets of the Brilliant jewels are still yet to be fully discovered but today we can reveal
more details surrounding one of their mysteries, as well as confirming some special boosts
to their current ability.

It is worth noting that most Jewels tend to have a variety of different utility, whether being
used in the EcoSim, or to boost a Cydroid and many other uses yet to be revealed making
them extremely versatile. Brilliants are still Jewels and as with any Jewel, what you get out
of a Brilliant will often be different depending on how or where you are using it.

​As Players are already familiar with, one of the Brilliant jewel’s effects grant the power to
 increase the performance of a slotted object where small margins may make all the
 difference such as giving a considerable edge to the yield of Resources or in the future could
 even play an important role in turning the tide of a “battle” or help with a timely escape.

Enter, the COPY Effect.

The Brilliant’s COPY boost effect will first be available when slotted into Cydroids, with the
COPY effect to be made available for Mentars and other objects in the near future.

How It Works

The way the Brilliant jewel’s COPY effect works is quite simple yet powerful, if done
correctly. Any Brilliant jewel may amplify its own available boost effect(s) by multiplying
the total boost effect of the other slotted jewels by the Brilliant’s COPY effect percentage.

Example: (Please refer to our announcement image as a visual reference)

Additional Example:

NOTE: The Amber jewel also boosts GOLD but this boost is not COPIED by the Ochre
Brilliant jewel as it does not carry that boost. However, if an Amber Brilliant was slotted
instead both the Iron ore and the Gold boosts would be copied!

The Tier of the Brilliant will also grant different levels of the COPY effect. Ranging from 25%
to 75%. Slotting 2 Brilliants of the same color will enhance the COPY effect but at a
diminished compound rate. This means that slotting more Brilliants will always have more
COPY effect than just one Brilliant but each time another Brilliant is slotted, the individual
COPY effect is reduced, although it is still possible to achieve a Copy effect of almost 100%
essentially doubling the standard slotted effect!!

The Brilliants slotted effect will not only COPY Resource boosts, but also performance boost
recently introduced for Cydroids, as well as E-ther boosts and more.

Perfect Combo COPY – RBA (Reward, Badges & Achievements)

Slotting the most optimal combination of jewels to achieve the highest total boost effect for
the Brilliant’s COPY Effect to further multiply the boosts is something to strive for. In the
future we are considering adding various optimized combos to the library of RBAs (Reward,
Badges & Achievements). When a player discovers and unlocks an optimal combo it is
theorised that it makes the Jewels resonate in a special frequency. Some say they have even
heard it and refer to it as the jewels “singing”. When a Brilliant jewel is added to an RBA
Combo it will further unlock a hidden power. When more is known it will be revealed in a
future announcement.

The #1 Rule:
​A Brilliant cannot copy the effect of another Brilliant. I.e. In the case of slotting ONLY 2 Blue
 Brilliants, without giving them any other jewels to copy the boost effects from, they will not
 activate their COPY effect, rather they will give their own regular boost effect, acting as
 regular jewels. So remember to slot your brilliants wisely!

In the future, other benefits may be revealed when slotting multiple Brilliants of the same or
different colours.

One more Groundbreaking Revelation about the future of Brilliants – Tethering & Co-op
COPY effect / Multi-object COPY Effect

We have now covered how the Brilliants COPY effect will work when slotted into a single
object such as the Mentar, Cydroids and so on but over time it is likely that the power will
be able to extend beyond the host itself!
Slotting Brilliants into special objects with tethering capabilities (E.g. the Mentar which
Cydroids are tethered to) will distribute the boost via the tether signal, amplifying a full or
partial boost effect to the objects tethered to it. Making the Mentar, for example, a central
beacon for boosts which could even pass through to other Mentars!

Furthermore, there will be consideration as the tethering functionality expands in Earth 2,
the amplified copy effects may not only encompass a Player’s own tethered objects but
extend these effects to other players’ objects in a collaborative setting, such as being in the
same Territory (like a Megacity) or Guild. These enhancements are still under review and
further details will be released and further elaborated on in the future.

Immediate Increase to E-ther Evaporation for all Brilliants

In addition to the incoming COPY effect for Cydroid slotting, we are also excited to confirm
Brilliants will receive an important boost when slotted on the Mentar. Previously, Brilliant
Jewels would give a 1% to 3% boost to E-ther evaporation depending on the Tier level.
When the next updates go live, this boost will increase to between 10% to 23% depending
on the Tier level!

A Quick Summary:

Future COPY Effect Features on the Drawing Board:

The COPY effect is vast and powerful but there may yet be other secrets of the Brilliant
jewel to uncover in the future.



NEW JEWEL BOOST OVERVIEW FOR RESOURCES
August 11, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – With all the excitement around our recent ‘yet to be
officially announced’ feature, we wanted to first publish a short article pointing out a small
but useful update to the Property Jewel Slotting page.
​This update provides a nice overview summarising the boosts of multiple Jewels slotted
 into a Mentar on a property. To view this overview, simply look for the new icon located on
 the right side of the Property card on the Jewel slotting page (Right Menu > Resources >
 Slotting).

Players will now have a clearer view of overall expected performance based on the boosts
achieved when multiple Jewels are slotted. In the near future we intend to improve this
overview by identifying Jewels which are actively priming a Resource as well.

We invite Players to try different Jewel combinations to get the most out of the precious
Jewel slots their properties have available, achieving optimal results from the Jewels used!


Resource Release: Tungsten
August 11, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Tungsten is now available to claim via the Earth 2
Player Resource Validation (E2PRV) System! This is a great opportunity for any Players who
own property in Earth 2 and believe they have this (or any currently released) Resources
present in their land to submit a claim. By making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some
Essence and the Resource distributed on their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.

IMPORTANT : Tungsten has only just been released at 9:30pm Friday evening Australian
East Coast time. The first approvals from the CAT will likely not occur until next week,
therefore, confirmed Tungsten locations will not appear on the heatmap until such time.
Only the Claim locations will appear on the heatmap.

If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

New Resources Released: (as at 11 August, 2023)

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

Previously Released Resources
Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.
​The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
 strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
 construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
 is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
 commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.



Cydroid Management Update & Cydroid Slotting
August 17, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – We are very pleased to announce that the Cydroid
Management interface released last week is officially live! Many Players have already
started exploring the new features as soon as they discovered the quiet release. Similar to
the Civilian Management section, Players can now see a complete overview of all their
Cydroids which includes the ability to view them by individual Cydroids or by the
properties they are currently tethered on. But more importantly, this update introduces a
major new utility for one of Earth 2’s core digital items, Jewels, via the release of the
Cydroid slotting system!
​Cydroid Jewel Slotting goes Live!
 Jewels are randomly spawned on land owned by Earth 2 Players and can be used as is or
 crafted (burned) into higher tiers and qualities, or entirely different types of Jewels by using
 different combination recipes. They can also be slotted into Mentars to improve various
 EcoSim related elements such as improved E-ther detection, improved E-ther evaporation,
 boosted Resource production and now boost specifications on Cydroids!

By slotting specific Jewels into your Cydroid you can improve a magnitude of its abilities
such as Raid Range, Speed, E-ther Dispensing Time, Power Cell Efficiency, Power
Concentration Level, Relocation Range and E-ther storage.

Jewels also have 6 different quality levels and each quality level provides adjusted
improvements to all of the above Cydroid abilities resulting in a complex system involving a
variety of Jewel combinations which open up a bunch of new strategies for Players.

“This is an exciting update that demonstrates improvements in our team’s ability to design,
develop and release new game mechanics which sync nicely with existing game loops and
operate real time on a global scale.”
“Right now Players can use and experience this new system on our website but in the future
these Cydroid boosts might also be important when you need that little more speed or
longer lasting energy inside E2V1.”

Since being quietly released last week, the new utility for Jewels and the demand to slot
Cydroids has resulted in over 3,000,000 Jewels being burned while crafting new higher tier
Jewels that can be slotted into Cydroids. Earth 2 has plans to add even further utility to
Jewels over time.

Cydroid Management Overview
Players can access Cydroid Management under the same Raid Management page where
Civilian Management is already located.

If you have no Cydroids, you can build Cydroids up to the maximum number based on the
size of your property:

TIP: Strategic play is key and we recommend assessing your property location, size and
neighbours before selecting which property/ies to build your Cydroids.

Once built, Cydroids can raid other Player’s properties for unstable E-ther. They can also be
relocated to another property owned by the same Player. This latest release of Jewel
Slotting in the Cydroid Management interface provides even more options for Players in
terms of raiding and strategy and many Players are already realising just how lucrative
raiding can be from correctly slotting Jewels into their Cydroids.
​Manage by Property
 Within the Cydroid Management Interface, Cydroids can be viewed and managed based on
 the property they are tethered to. This is useful when looking to:

The Property “Sort By” options allow you to sort your properties by order of Name
(alphabetical), Location (alphabetical), Tile size or Cydroids (number of Cydroids tethered).

Manage by Cydroids
The Cydroid Management interface also allows Players to view and manage their Cydroids
individually. This is useful when looking to:

The Cydroid “Sort By” options allow you to sort your Cydroids by order of Name
(alphabetical), Storage (E-ther), Speed (max. travel speed), Charge (Power Cell %),
Efficiency (%), Jewels (number of Jewels slotted) or Location (alphabetical).

Cydroid Info
When a Cydroid is selected within the Cydroid Management interface, a complete overview
of the Cydroid’s basic details and current technical specs are displayed on the right-hand
side panel.

The Cydroid’s past raid stats will also be recorded here (to be released).

These raid stats will be released and expanded on in the future release of the Insights
interface which can be seen under the Raid Management page navigations. Although not yet
released, it will assist Players in their analysis of raids and subsequent strategy.

For now, Players can also quickly Power and DePower their Cydroids from this panel. This
is also where Players will be able to sell their Cydroids on the Bazaar (to be released). A
teaser button is shown and will be accessible whether managing by properties or by
individual Cydroids.

Cydroid Slotting
Included in the release of Cydroid Management is the Cydroid Slotting feature which allows
Players to slot particular Jewels into their Cydroids to boost the base level specs detailed
above.

To boost a Cydroid, Players can either select the Jewel Slotting button within the Cydroid
Info panel, or select the Cydroid Boosts tab as shown below:

Slotting Jewels to improve Cydroids will involve experimentation and strategy, as each
Cydroid’s boost requirements will differ depending on the location and what you want to
achieve.

Different Jewels and Jewel combinations will have different effects on a Cydroid’s raid specs,
so the “Results” box will be useful for Players to test different Jewels and Jewel
combinations in their Cydroid’s slots.
​Note: Only Jewels with boosts relevant to Cydroids will appear in the Jewel Inventory for
 Cydroid Slotting. To see all your Jewels, visit the Jewel Inventory on the Resources page, or
 the Asset Overview in your Player Profile page.

Here is a helpful list of all the Jewels that can be slotted into a Cydroid, and their respective
boost effects:

Since the complete update to the Jewel icons and inventory UI, Players are also able to slot
stacks of the same Jewel kind into a Cydroid and the Jewel with the best (highest) boost
effect from that stack will automatically be selected and slotted into the Cydroid’s empty
slot.

Many Players have been waiting for the ability to boost their Cydroids, so what are you all
waiting for? Check out the new Cydroid Management interface, and start boosting your
active Cydroids to optimise their raid results!

Helpful Q+A
Prehnite increases the Power Cell Essence Concentration Level (PCL). Power Cells can later
be crafted with various default Power Concentration Levels. The higher the Power Cell
Concentration level is, the more Energy Units and the more Essence is required. However,
Prehnite is able to increase the Concentration Level of a Power Cell without requiring the
Player to add additional Essence to power the higher grade Power Cell.

As opposed to Prehnite which increases the concentration level, Sunstone increases the
Energy efficiency which also lets Players enjoy more output from their Power Cells. In a do-
more-with-less-energy kind of fashion it is similar to the Prehnite (which increases the
Energy Units instead) but slotted together, they can be an interesting combination. Since
Sunstone increases energy efficiency it means that less energy units are required per
activity whilst keeping the same total Energy Unit capacity.

Other types of upgrades and – quite possibly -ways to acquire non-ethereal Cydroids will
later come into play which may also impact Resource slots.



P2P Cydroid Trading NOW LIVE
August 28, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to officially announce P2P Cydroid
trading which is now LIVE on the Bazaar! Cydroids being sold via the Bazaar come fully
powered with 5 Essence so they are locked, loaded and ready to raid!

This is a great opportunity to trade their Cydroids for E$ (E$1=$1USD) or for new, existing
or future Players, who lack enough Essence to build their first Cydroid, to get started and try
their hand in raiding with Cydroids currently selling for between $0.60 to $12.00 each
depending on rarity and other factors (note that prices will fluctuate as it is a 100% Player
driven market, Earth 2 does not set any prices).
​Remember, these first edition Cydroids have more utility than just raiding alone, with many
 also possessing the ability to act as Prospecting Cydroids (to increase Resource Occurrence
 Unit gathering vs Mentar alone) plus other abilities which have not yet been disclosed.

The Cydroid Bazaar is an extension to Earth 2’s player-to-player trading system and is a
significant update towards our goal of providing Players with control over the digital items
they own in a completely Player-driven economy. Prices may fluctuate as different utilities
for Cydroids are announced over time. But for now, keep reading for more details!

(Hey there, if you don’t know what a Cydroid is, we recommend you watch this video about
Cydroids and Raiding before continuing with this article).

The Bazaar: Cydroid Trading

The Bazaar has been moved from its previous location within the Resources section of the
Player menu to make it easier for everyone to find. Cydroid Trading is now LIVE and can be
found by going to Marketplace > Bazaar > Cydroids.

The Bazaar is the trading hub for Player-built and owned digital items. As more components
of the EcoSim are released and external prices on core digital commodities such as Essence
are determined, we predict there will be a direct increase in the demand for and trading of
related EcoSim assets. The player-to-player trading of Jewels (which contain boosts and
benefits related to Resources and Raiding) and Holobuildings (which have the ability to
store Resource Occurrence Units for Resource production) is already facilitated on the
Bazaar. Adding Cydroid trading to this existing system provides more opportunities for
Players to not only gain digital items they may require, but in some cases also earn from
these digital items.

The beauty of a Player-driven trading system, such as the Bazaar, is that every Player
participating in this system is gaining something in the transaction, whether by gaining an
item they need, or gaining E$ from items they wish to sell.

Cydroid Trading Details

There are a multitude of reasons why a Player may choose to sell their Cydroid, and there
are equally as many reasons why a Player may be looking to buy a Cydroid from another
Player. The fundamental concept of Cydroids is that they are not only an important digital
items (currently the core mechanic of Raiding) each Cydroid will have increasingly more
utility, and become a collectable that is adaptive to the expansion of its utility as the EcoSim
grows. This ensures Cydroids aren’t only useful and relevant now, but may continue to be
even more so as different components of the EcoSim are released.

When a Cydroid build is in progress, their rarity is not known until they are fully built. Some
Players may be collecting all existing Cydroids released in Earth 2 to date. Others may be
building their collection of the rarest, Legendary Cydroids only. Building Cydroids also
requires an initial injection of Essence which some Players may not have the Essence
​balance to do. Such Players may benefit immensely from the ability to purchase directly off
 the Bazaar as this skips the sometimes time consuming journey to get those first few
 Essence on their part. The newly acquired Cydroid can try raiding unstable E-ther which (if
 successfully raided) can then be transformed into Essence to grow their Essence balance, as
 many Players have already managed to do.

All the details required for Players to purchase the exact Cydroid they are looking for are
provided on each Bazaar listing.

Each Cydroid listing on the Bazaar will display the unique details about that Cydroid, such
as:

The back of the Cydroid listing card also reveals details of the Cydroid’s unique
specifications:

Most of these specs will be the same for all Cydroids, but once nested items can be sold (a
future feature allowing Cydroids to be sold whilst slotted with Jewels), these specs will be
different and Players will want to search carefully for the Cydroid with very specific abilities
obtained by using Jewels boosts.

Logistics of Cydroid Trading

TELEPORTATION

Currently, Cydroids traded on the Bazaar will be transferred using the temporary method of
teleportation, to allow players to trade more freely. This method currently ignores
relocation requirements that will be introduced with future methods, but still requires a
fully charged power cell to be in the Cydroid.

RELOCATE (future feature)

Autonomous assets, such as Cydroids, will be able to relocate without other logistical aids.
However, they still need to be traded with a fully charged (100%) power cell… or
potentially a walking civilian.

Listing a Cydroid on the Bazaar

Listing a Cydroid for sale on the Bazaar is easy. The only requirements for listing a Cydroid
is that the Cydroid:

Once all of the above requirements are met, select the desired Cydroid from your Cydroid
Management interface:

From there, you can find the option to sell your Cydroid at the bottom of the Cydroid Info
panel, as so:

Next, select your logistics (transfer) option. Only the teleportation option is available for
now ( detailed above).
​Then enter your desired selling price:

Once you have confirmed the selling price, your Cydroid will be listed on the Bazaar. As a
quick overview of which of your Cydroids are currently listed on the Bazaar, you can take a
look at the left-hand-side management panel (Cydroids will be marked as “For Sale”):

A few important things to note when listing a Cydroid on the Bazaar is that this action will
affect your ability to use the Cydroid whilst it is listed for sale. While your Cydroid is for
sale:

As the above restrictions are applied, Cydroids cannot be in the middle of relocating or
raiding, or be depowered when attempting to list the Cydroid on the Bazaar as the sell

function will be disabled.

Delisting a Cydroid

Once a Cydroid has been listed on the Bazaar, it can be removed from the Bazaar by its
owner. Delisting is simple and the option is available in the same location, having replaced
the Sell Cydroid option in the Cydroid Info panel.

Simply confirm that you wish to proceed with delisting a Cydroid and the Cydroid will be
removed from the Bazaar.

Buying a Cydroid

To purchase a Cydroid, go to Marketplace -> Bazaar -> Cydroids to see all Cydroids
currently listed for sale.

You can filter the results by Cydroid Rarity or Type, and sort the results by order of Price or
Rarity.

Cydroids can be purchased individually by selecting the BUY NOW button:

To finalise the purchase, select the designated property that will tether your new Cydroid.




You also have the option to add Cydroids to your “cart” and buy multiple Cydroids in a
single transaction. When more than one Cydroid is selected, a BUY SELECTED button will
appear at the top of the Cydroid Bazaar:

When purchasing multiple Cydroids, each selected Cydroid can be designated to a different
property with an available tether spot.

When attempting to purchase Cydroids from the Bazaar, you must ensure that you have an
eligible property for the purchased Cydroid/s to tether to. If you don’t own any properties,
you can purchase one from the map (BUY LAND) or the Marketplace. If you own properties
​but there are no tether spots available, you can sell the Cydroid/s you no longer want / need
 in order to purchase a new Cydroid.

NB: Anyone with a free Earth 2 account is able to buy Cydroids from the Bazaar. However,
you must have the KYC check completed on your Earth 2 account if you want to SELL on the
Bazaar. This protects all parties involved in the transaction and ensures the utmost safety
and security for all Players.

Overall, Cydroid trading allows Players to potentially earn from digital items which might
otherwise go unused on their current properties, or to obtain digital items they need
quickly, particularly when wanting to bypass build times etc. by purchasing pre-built
Cydroids.

Please be advised that the example screenshots used throughout this article are from our
test server which may show inflated prices and are not an accurate reflection of our live
market. Please check our production website for true prices.



Resource Release: Chromium
August 30, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Chromium was opened a few days ago via the Earth 2
Player Resource Validation (E2PRV) System and already has over 400 claims approved
appearing in over 30 resource locations already visible on the Earth 2 Resource Heatmap!

This is a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and believe they
have this (or any currently released) Resources present in their land to submit a claim. By
making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource distributed on
their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.

If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

New Resources Released: (as at 30 August, 2023)

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Previously Released Resources

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.
​Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
 It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.


Jewel Bazaar Update, Jewels Bulk Buy & New Marketplace Filter
September 5, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Following the recent release of P2P Cydroid trading
on the Bazaar, the new-look Jewel Bazaar UI has also been updated to not only bring
​it in line with the new design style on Earth 2 but to facilitate a better experience for Players
 overall.

In addition to their existing purpose, the recent increased utility of Jewels through Cydroid
slotting, which boosts effects on Cydroids and their raiding specs, the revelation of new
priming Jewels for newly released Resource types and the potential of other use-cases in the
future, such as fusing Jewels with Cydroids, slotting them on your Avatar and more, Jewel
trading is quickly becoming a staple in many Players’ Earth 2 repertoire.

The Jewel Bazaar update includes a complete upgrade to our signature dark theme but
notably Players are now able to make bulk purchases of Jewels listed on the Bazaar using
the quick selection checkbox on the top left-hand corner of each listing. Conveniently, by
clicking the new ‘Select All’ button, Players will be able to select all items that are displayed
on the current page.

If you haven’t recently visited the Bazaar, it is now located in an easier to find location
within the Marketplace.

Cydroid Bulk Buy Update
When bulk purchasing Cydroids from the Bazaar, Players are required to assign destination
properties for each Cydroid. To improve the assigning experience of bulk-purchase Cydroids
to multiple properties, the newly updated UI clearly shows which properties have already
been selected as destinations for the Cydroids being purchased in the bulk-buy.

The green number preceded by a ‘+’ symbol indicates the number of Cydroids already
selected for teleportation to the property (see image above). When the number of Cydroids
selected for teleportation to a particular property reaches the maximum tether space on
that property, the property will remain visible in the list but will no longer be selectable.

This update addresses a previous issue where Players were unknowingly assigning
multiple Cydroids to the same property beyond the property’s maximum tethering capacity
thereby causing the bulk-buy to fail.

Marketplace Filter Update
A new filter was also added to the Earth 2 Property Marketplace allowing Players to search
for the exact property size they wish to purchase. The new “Filter by Land Size” option
allows Players to search for the exact property size they are after, simply by keying in an
exact size, or a range of sizes, for example, 10-50, which will display all properties for sale
between a range of 10 to 50 tiles.

A revamped version of the Marketplace is currently in the works, with the aim to bring the
Marketplace up to speed with the recent flurry of feature releases on Earth 2, such as
displaying Resource Types, Cydroids Tethered, Jewels Slotted, and more. These are bigger
upgrades than it sounds due to a number of not so obvious edge cases. One very important
requirement being the locking of digital items on a property when that property is for sale,
​essentially protecting the buyer by guaranteeing what they see will in fact be what they
 receive in the final sale.

Our team is well and truly capable of such updates, but with limited bandwidth and a list of
higher priority items in development and the end of the year quickly approaching, our team
also has other features we need to prioritise. We thank you for your patience and continued
support. We will continue to release smaller filter updates to improve your experience when
and where possible until such time we are able to implement the revamped version in the
future.



Resource Release: Cobalt
September 8, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Cobalt was released on Monday via the Earth 2
Player Resource Validation (E2PRV) System and is ready to claim with hundreds of claims
already approved!

This is a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and believe they
have this (or any currently released) Resources present in their land to submit a claim. By
making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource distributed on
their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.
If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

New Resources Released: (as at 8 September, 2023)

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of superalloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

Previously Released Resources

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.
​An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
 create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
 can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
 and purposes.

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.


P2P Civilian Trading LIVE
September 19, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2® is pleased to officially announce P2P
Civilian trading which is now LIVE on the Bazaar! Civilians become the third major
tradeable EcoSim utility item on the Bazaar and the unique aesthetic and skills that come
with their achieved mastery levels make each of these First Edition Civilians useful in their
own specific way.
​“The Civilian addition to the Bazaar aligns with our long term goal of creating a Metaverse
 with a vibrant EcoSim that facilitates trade between Players who discover, build, train,
improve, find, manufacture, and craft many of the digital items inside of Earth 2,” said Earth
2 Founder, Shane Isaac.

“We also realise it takes time for a small Player to collect the 25 E-ther required to
synthesise their first and then each subsequent Civilian, so those smaller Players of not only
today but also tomorrow, who manage to achieve a level of success via manual raiding, now
have the additional option of acquiring Civilians from other Players starting from a few
cents for a Level 1.”

“Initiatives such as the Civilian, Cydroid & Jewel Bazaar form part of our ideology to include
the Player in the ecosystem of digital item acquisition on our platform as opposed to
excluding the Player like many traditional game platforms,” Shane went on to say. “To paint
a clearer picture, nowadays many games, especially on mobile, solely provide options for
the Player to purchase a digital item directly from the game company without the ability to
resell or generate tradable items which is of course perfect for the game company. On Earth
2 we provide the ability for the Player to create such items or resources and we strive to go
that step further to ensure the Player not only has the ability to sell or resell the item but
receives the majority of the sale price. It’s still a work in progress and coming together but it
has been very rewarding to see it functioning so far and we’ve experienced higher trade
volumes than expected.”

In P2P trading, some Players may use the Civilian Bazaar to collect First Edition Civilians in
sets from each available Faction, while others may focus on purchasing a Civilian solely for
their occupational skills and mastery levels. But as usual, Players have already identified a
number of additional strategies in relation to Civilian management and while Earth 2 did
not expect the popularity of Civilian trading on the Bazaar to grow until well into the future,
we have already seen over 17,000 Civilians traded so far!

It is important to remember that utilising Civilians requires a slow, steady and strategic
approach so do not rush in and buy more Civilians than you can manage to sustain, as each
Civilian still requires 4 Red Energy Units in sustenance each week. To refresh your memory
of how Civilians function in general, please check out this article or continue reading to
cover a few additional points related to the new Earth 2 Civilian Bazaar:

HOW TO LIST A CIVILIAN FOR SALE ON THE BAZAAR
Listing a Civilian for sale on the Bazaar is easy to do via the Civilian Management interface.

Players may choose to sell Civilians from a specific property or sell a specific Civilian from
any property, and this can be done by viewing their Civilians by Properties or Civilians,
respectively.

STEP 1: Go to Raid Management > Civilian Management and select either the Civilians or
Properties tab
​STEP 2: Find the Civilian you wish to sell. You can browse or use the search, filter and sort
 tools to find your Civilian quickly.

TIP: You can also search by Properties if you are looking to sell all the Civilians from a
specific property.

STEP 3: Select the desired Civilian and the SELL CIVILIAN option will appear on the right-
hand side.

STEP 4: Confirm the logistics details (only Teleportation method temporarily available)

STEP 5: Set the sale price of your Civilian. Also take this opportunity to make sure you have
selected the correct Civilian.

STEP 6: Confirm the listing!

STEP 7: You can check your new listing by going to the Bazaar and toggling the SHOW
button to MY LISTINGS

You can also see which Civilians you have currently listed for sale within your Civilian
Management interface, as they are conveniently marked with a ‘FOR SALE’ label.

THE CIVILIAN BAZAAR
Once listed on the Bazaar, each Civilian listing will display various unique details about that
specific Civilian, such as:

The back of the Civilian listing card also reveals details of the Civilian’s unique specifications
such as its:

It is important to note that for now Civilians can be instantly teleported to a property on
purchase. This is a limited time feature that will only remain available until Earth 2’s
Civilian transportation logistic system comes online at some point in the future.

Importantly, Civilians can also be listed on the Bazaar whilst in the middle of undertaking a
task, as well as continue to work whilst being listed. However, if the Civilian begins
wandering, the Civilian will automatically be removed from the Bazaar and the seller must
recapture their Civilian using Red Energy to lure them back before being able to relist their
Civilian on the Bazaar. Evidently, Civilians listed on the Bazaar must remain sustained by
Red Energy Units or will be automatically be delisted once they begin to wander.


Resource Release: Platinum
September 21, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Following a regular release schedule, Platinum
was released last Monday via the Earth 2 Player Resource Validation (E2PRV) System and is
currently available to claim, with hundreds of claims already approved and more than 20
verifiable Platinum mines identified but yet to be claimed!
​This is a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and believe they
 have this (or any currently released) Resources present in their land to submit a claim. By
 making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource distributed on
 their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.

If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

New Resources Released: (as at 11 September, 2023)

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Previously Released Resources

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.
​Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
 efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that

ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.


Resource Release: Niobium
September 25, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Niobium was released via the Earth 2 Player
Resource Validation (E2PRV) System last Monday and is currently available to claim.
Interestingly there have been more Niobium claims approved than Platinum which was
released two weeks ago!

In many cases, Resources belonging to higher Discovery Tiers will be rarer and have a lower
chance of spawning in Earth 2. If you believe you have Niobium on your property, submit a
claim to guarantee discoverability on your land (if your claim is valid)!

This is a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and believe they
have this (or any active released) Resources present in their land to submit a claim. By
making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource distributed on
their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.
​If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
 here.

New Resources Released: (as at 18 September, 2023)

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Previously Released Resources

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.


Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.
​Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.



Resource Release: Neodymium
October 10, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Neodymium is currently claimable via the E2PRV
system and has been very popular with over 740 claims approved already!

This is a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and believe they
have this (or any active released) Resources present in their land to submit a claim. By
making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource distributed on
their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.

If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

New Resources Released: (as at 10 October, 2023)

Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.

Previously Released Resources
​Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
 precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.
Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines
​An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
 https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.

Edit: Previous versions of this article featured images of CD024 incorrectly named as
“Venator”.



Resource Release: Zirconium
October 16, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Zirconium is currently available to claim via the
E2PRV system! There have been well over 1240 claims submitted for Zirconium since its
release and with only 10 more foundational Resources remaining, don’t miss your chance to
claim any of the currently available Resources.

Zirconium was introduced as a late addition to the 21 new Resources announced for release
since the initial round of Resources were distributed in Earth 2 (Wood, Water, Sand, Gold,
Limestone, Coal, Oil and Iron Ore). Despite this “late” introduction, Zirconium has an
important role in the Earth 2 EcoSim, influencing the Building Blocks Players will be able to
obtain using this Resource. The real world offers so many wonderful Resources and it is
part of the natural progression, as the EcoSim evolves and grows in complexity, that new
Resources will be introduced within Earth 2 from time to time. While they may appear
seemingly suddenly, their inclusion and role in the EcoSim is one that has been carefully
considered.

This is a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and believe they
have this (or any active released) Resources present in their land to submit a claim. By
​making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource distributed on
 their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.

If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

Players please be advised that there is currently a greater than usual delay with the
approval of claims and the distribution of Zirconium to approved areas. We would like to
reassure Players that this delay will be resolved and we thank you for your ongoing
patience during this delay.

New Resources Released: (as at 16 October, 2023)

Zirconium is a metal with unique characteristics and is primarily found in the mineral
zircon. Boasting a strong resistance to corrosion by acids, alkalis, and seawater, it is often
used in the nuclear industry in radioactive shielding due to its low neutron absorption
properties. Its applications extend beyond nuclear reactors, as Zirconium’s compounds also
play pivotal roles in ceramics for capacitors, foundry equipment, and many other areas of
material science.

Previously Released Resources

Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.

Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
​are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
 well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided
and any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines
set out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the
E2PRV system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2
guidelines to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid
​claim. Players who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking
 Players’) risk.



Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels – Iron
October 19, 2023- Sydney, Australia – Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels. You
may have heard these mentioned before, or seen our weekly Resource release
announcements. But what are they and what role do they play in the Earth 2 EcoSim?

To understand how Prospecting Cydroids, Resources and Prime Jewels relate to each other,
and most importantly, how you will be able to use them in your own EcoSim adventures,
continue reading this article!

A QUICK RECAP
Resources

Just like our planet Earth, Earth 2 also has Resources that are distributed across virtual
land, uniquely based on their geolocation. There will initially be 32 official Resources that
will form the foundation for the core building aspect of the EcoSim, 13 of which are still
currently available via the E2PRV system.

If you have a specific Resource on your property you will have the ability to mine that
Resource by gaining its Occurrence Units(OUs) which will in turn be processed by the
Weaver into Raw Materials. Through a variety of different types of factories, Raw Materials
will then be used as the core ingredients for creating over 200 unique Building Blocks
required for constructing a variety of Buildings, Factories, Power Cells, Engines (for various
types of transportation), Energy Producing Technologies, Advert Billboards, Machinery,
Military-Grade Technologies, and more inside Earth 2’s open 3D world, E2V1.

Prime Jewels

As their name alludes to, Prime Jewels have the ability to prime the Resource they are linked
to. This can be done by slotting the Prime Jewel associated with the Resource you want to
prime into your Mentar. To put it simply, slotting will enable the Mentar to read and collect
the specific Resource’s Occurrence Units.

See the full list of released Resources and their associated Prime Jewels below. A new
Resource from the chart is released weekly so make sure to keep an eye out for our
announcements!

Prospecting Cydroids

Prospecting Cydroids are the product of modifications made to the base model Raiding
Cydroids, which have typically been built and used to raid neighbouring properties of their
unstable E-ther – to date. While the ability to modify Raiding Cydroids has not yet been
enabled, the revelation of exactly which Cydroids are linked to which Resource/s allows
​Players to prepare the Cydroids corresponding to the Resources that are abundant on their
 property/ies.

It is important to note that in order to modify a First Edition (a.k.a. Raiding) Cydroid, you
will need to follow a process which involves fusing the relevant Primary Jewel with the
relevant Cydroid – to refresh your memory more information can be found in our previous
announcement https://earth2.io/news/major-ecosim-update under ‘Prospecting Cydroids’.

Now with P2P trading of Cydroids in the Earth 2 Bazaar, it is easier than ever to get the
Cydroid you need for the Resources you have on your property. Here is a list of all the
Resources released to date, including the Cydroids and Jewels associated with Round 1
Resources which are no longer available to claim. This list will progressively grow as we
announce 1 Resource and the corresponding Cydroid and Jewel each week.

Latest Confirmed Resource
DISCOVERY TIER 1

Iron (No longer available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and often a great material of choice, Iron is an essential component for many objects
in Earth 2. Refining and processing Iron into different types of steel achieves good
compressive strength for buildings yet also achieves structural strength for vehicles.

Previously Confirmed Resources
DISCOVERY TIER 2

Bauxite (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

The primary source of aluminium in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Zinc (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

DISCOVERY TIER 3

Tin (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
​can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
 and purposes.

Nickel (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

Tungsten (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)
Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

DISCOVERY TIER 4

Chromium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Cobalt (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.


DISCOVERY TIER 5

Platinum (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Niobium(Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Diamond (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.
​DISCOVERY TIER 6

Neodymium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.

Zirconium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Zirconium is a metal with unique characteristics and is primarily found in the mineral
zircon. Boasting a strong resistance to corrosion by acids, alkalis, and seawater, it is often
used in the nuclear industry in radioactive shielding due to its low neutron absorption
properties. Its applications extend beyond nuclear reactors, as Zirconium’s compounds also
play pivotal roles in ceramics for capacitors, foundry equipment, and many other areas of
material science.



Resource Release: Titanium
October 23, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Titanium is currently available to claim, with over
1,100 claims approved already! Titanium is also the last of the Discovery Tier 6 Resources
to be released and Players should be aware that Resources from D7 onwards will only be
mineable on Tier 1 properties, please read the announcement text on our social websites to
learn more for now.

Resource releases are a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and
believe they have Titanium (or any active released Resources) present in their land to
submit a claim. By making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource
distributed on their property if the claim is approved!
To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.

If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

New Resources Released: (as at 23 October, 2023)

Highly durable and lightweight, Titanium is an essential resource for high-performance
vehicle parts, aerospace technologies, and even medical devices, due to its biocompatibility.

Previously Released Resources

Zirconium is a metal with unique characteristics and is primarily found in the mineral
zircon. Boasting a strong resistance to corrosion by acids, alkalis, and seawater, it is often
used in the nuclear industry in radioactive shielding due to its low neutron absorption
properties. Its applications extend beyond nuclear reactors, as Zirconium’s compounds also
​play pivotal roles in ceramics for capacitors, foundry equipment, and many other areas of
 material science.

Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.


Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.
​Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
 efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
 performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.


Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels – Water
October 25, 2023- Sydney, Australia – Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels. You

may have heard these mentioned before, or seen our weekly Resource release
announcements. But what are they and what role do they play in the Earth 2 EcoSim?

To understand how Prospecting Cydroids, Resources and Prime Jewels relate to each other,
and most importantly, how you will be able to use them in your own EcoSim adventures,
continue reading this article!

A QUICK RECAP
Resources

Just like our planet Earth, Earth 2 also has Resources that are distributed across virtual
land, uniquely based on their geolocation. There will initially be 32 official Resources that
will form the foundation for the core building aspect of the EcoSim, 13 of which are still
currently available via the E2PRV system.
​If you have a specific Resource on your property you will have the ability to mine that
 Resource by gaining its Occurrence Units(OUs) which will in turn be processed by the
 Weaver into Raw Materials. Through a variety of different types of factories, Raw Materials
 will then be used as the core ingredients for creating over 200 unique Building Blocks
 required for constructing a variety of Buildings, Factories, Power Cells, Engines (for various
 types of transportation), Energy Producing Technologies, Advert Billboards, Machinery,
 Military-Grade Technologies, and more inside Earth 2’s open 3D world, E2V1.

Prime Jewels

As their name alludes to, Prime Jewels have the ability to prime the Resource they are linked
to. This can be done by slotting the Prime Jewel associated with the Resource you want to
prime into your Mentar. To put it simply, slotting will enable the Mentar to read and collect
the specific Resource’s Occurrence Units.

See the full list of released Resources and their associated Prime Jewels below. A new
Resource from the chart is released weekly so make sure to keep an eye out for our
announcements!

Prospecting Cydroids

Prospecting Cydroids are the product of modifications made to the base model Raiding
Cydroids, which have typically been built and used to raid neighbouring properties of their
unstable E-ther – to date. While the ability to modify Raiding Cydroids has not yet been
enabled, the revelation of exactly which Cydroids are linked to which Resource/s allows
Players to prepare the Cydroids corresponding to the Resources that are abundant on their
property/ies.

It is important to note that in order to modify a First Edition (a.k.a. Raiding) Cydroid, you
will need to follow a process which involves fusing the relevant Primary Jewel with the
relevant Cydroid – to refresh your memory more information can be found in our previous
announcement https://earth2.io/news/major-ecosim-update under ‘Prospecting Cydroids’.
Now with P2P trading of Cydroids in the Earth 2 Bazaar, it is easier than ever to get the
Cydroid you need for the Resources you have on your property. Here is a list of all the
Resources released to date, including the Cydroids and Jewels associated with Round 1
Resources which are no longer available to claim. This list will progressively grow as we
announce 1 Resource and the corresponding Cydroid and Jewel each week.

Latest Confirmed Resource
Water (Special distribution via E2V1)

The source of life itself, Water is needed to sustain your population and agriculture. In
addition, Water has various industrial applications, including purifying (e.g. electrolysis and
ultrasonic cleaning) and cooling metals.
​Previously Confirmed Resources
 DISCOVERY TIER 1

Iron (No longer available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and often a great material of choice, Iron is an essential component for many objects
in Earth 2. Refining and processing Iron into different types of steel achieves good
compressive strength for buildings yet also achieves structural strength for vehicles.

DISCOVERY TIER 2

Bauxite (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

The primary source of aluminium in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Zinc (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

DISCOVERY TIER 3

Tin (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

Nickel (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

Tungsten (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

DISCOVERY TIER 4
​Chromium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Cobalt (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

DISCOVERY TIER 5

Platinum (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Niobium(Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Diamond (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.

DISCOVERY TIER 6

Neodymium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.

Zirconium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Zirconium is a metal with unique characteristics and is primarily found in the mineral
zircon. Boasting a strong resistance to corrosion by acids, alkalis, and seawater, it is often
used in the nuclear industry in radioactive shielding due to its low neutron absorption
properties. Its applications extend beyond nuclear reactors, as Zirconium’s compounds also
play pivotal roles in ceramics for capacitors, foundry equipment, and many other areas of
material science.
​Titanium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Highly durable and lightweight, Titanium is an essential resource for high-performance
vehicle parts, aerospace technologies, and even medical devices, due to its biocompatibility.



Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels – Limestone
October 27, 2023- Sydney, Australia – Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels. You
may have heard these mentioned before, or seen our weekly Resource release
announcements. But what are they and what role do they play in the Earth 2 EcoSim?

To understand how Prospecting Cydroids, Resources and Prime Jewels relate to each other,
and most importantly, how you will be able to use them in your own EcoSim adventures,
continue reading this article!

A QUICK RECAP
Resources

Just like our planet Earth, Earth 2 also has Resources that are distributed across virtual
land, uniquely based on their geolocation. There will initially be 32 official Resources that
will form the foundation for the core building aspect of the EcoSim, 13 of which are still
currently available via the E2PRV system.

If you have a specific Resource on your property you will have the ability to mine that
Resource by gaining its Occurrence Units(OUs) which will in turn be processed by the
Weaver into Raw Materials. Through a variety of different types of factories, Raw Materials
will then be used as the core ingredients for creating over 200 unique Building Blocks
required for constructing a variety of Buildings, Factories, Power Cells, Engines (for various
types of transportation), Energy Producing Technologies, Advert Billboards, Machinery,
Military-Grade Technologies, and more inside Earth 2’s open 3D world, E2V1.

Prime Jewels
As their name alludes to, Prime Jewels have the ability to prime the Resource they are linked
to. This can be done by slotting the Prime Jewel associated with the Resource you want to
prime into your Mentar. To put it simply, slotting will enable the Mentar to read and collect
the specific Resource’s Occurrence Units.

See the full list of released Resources and their associated Prime Jewels below. A new
Resource from the chart is released weekly so make sure to keep an eye out for our
announcements!

Prospecting Cydroids

Prospecting Cydroids are the product of modifications made to the base model Raiding
Cydroids, which have typically been built and used to raid neighbouring properties of their
unstable E-ther – to date. While the ability to modify Raiding Cydroids has not yet been
​enabled, the revelation of exactly which Cydroids are linked to which Resource/s allows
 Players to prepare the Cydroids corresponding to the Resources that are abundant on their
 property/ies.

It is important to note that in order to modify a First Edition (a.k.a. Raiding) Cydroid, you
will need to follow a process which involves fusing the relevant Primary Jewel with the
relevant Cydroid – to refresh your memory more information can be found in our previous
announcement https://earth2.io/news/major-ecosim-update under ‘Prospecting Cydroids’.

Now with P2P trading of Cydroids in the Earth 2 Bazaar, it is easier than ever to get the
Cydroid you need for the Resources you have on your property. Here is a list of all the
Resources released to date, including the Cydroids and Jewels associated with Round 1
Resources which are no longer available to claim. This list will progressively grow as we
announce 1 Resource and the corresponding Cydroid and Jewel each week.

Latest Confirmed Resource
Limestone (No longer available to claim via E2PRV)

A sturdy natural resource, Limestone is used to create concrete for building infrastructure.
It is also used in the production of glass and can be processed to help soil in farming.

Previously Confirmed Resources
DISCOVERY TIER 1

Iron (No longer available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and often a great material of choice, Iron is an essential component for many objects
in Earth 2. Refining and processing Iron into different types of steel achieves good
compressive strength for buildings yet also achieves structural strength for vehicles.

Water (Special distribution via E2V1)

The source of life itself, Water is needed to sustain your population and agriculture. In
addition, Water has various industrial applications, including purifying (e.g. electrolysis and
ultrasonic cleaning) and cooling metals.

DISCOVERY TIER 2

Bauxite (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

The primary source of aluminium in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Zinc (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)
​Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
 efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
 performance of vehicles.

DISCOVERY TIER 3

Tin (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)
An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

Nickel (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

Tungsten (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

DISCOVERY TIER 4

Chromium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.


Cobalt (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

DISCOVERY TIER 5

Platinum (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.
​Niobium(Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Diamond (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.

DISCOVERY TIER 6

Neodymium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.

Zirconium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Zirconium is a metal with unique characteristics and is primarily found in the mineral
zircon. Boasting a strong resistance to corrosion by acids, alkalis, and seawater, it is often
used in the nuclear industry in radioactive shielding due to its low neutron absorption
properties. Its applications extend beyond nuclear reactors, as Zirconium’s compounds also
play pivotal roles in ceramics for capacitors, foundry equipment, and many other areas of
material science.

Titanium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)
Highly durable and lightweight, Titanium is an essential resource for high-performance
vehicle parts, aerospace technologies, and even medical devices, due to its biocompatibility.


Resource Release: Molybdenum
October 30, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Molybdenum is currently available to claim, with
over 500 claims approved already! Molybdenum is also the first of the Discovery Tier 7
Resources to be released. Players should be aware that Resources from D7 onwards will
only be mineable on Tier 1 properties.

Earth 2 made a promise in the past that Tier 1 land would receive additional Resources, and
that promise starts from Discovery Tier 7. The higher the Discovery Tier, the more advanced
the technological product the raw materials will contribute toward.

Earth 2 has allowed for most of the new Discovery Tier Resources to remain openly
claimable by any Player. However, after a period of time, these will close and may only open
periodically, with the higher tier Resources opening less frequently and for shorter periods
of time, if ever. Earth 2 may also allocate new locations for various Resources in the future
​but these will predominantly be focused on new land rewarding Players who explore and
 scan inside E2 and these locations may be scarce, meaning that the higher tier Resources
 secured on land through the E2PRV system today may end up becoming the major source of
 such Resource ownership and control long term!

Resource releases are a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and
believe they have Molybdenum (or any active released Resources) present in their land to
submit a claim. By making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource
distributed on their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.

If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
here.

New Resources Released: (as at 30 October, 2023)

A resource with one of the highest melting points, Molybdenum is used in applications
requiring extreme heat resistance. It is crucial for advanced steel alloys, highly technological
electronics, and advanced renewable energy technologies.

Previously Released Resources

Highly durable and lightweight, Titanium is an essential resource for high-performance
vehicle parts, aerospace technologies, and even medical devices, due to its biocompatibility.

Zirconium is a metal with unique characteristics and is primarily found in the mineral
zircon. Boasting a strong resistance to corrosion by acids, alkalis, and seawater, it is often
used in the nuclear industry in radioactive shielding due to its low neutron absorption
properties. Its applications extend beyond nuclear reactors, as Zirconium’s compounds also
play pivotal roles in ceramics for capacitors, foundry equipment, and many other areas of
material science.

Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.

Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
​makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
 Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements

efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:
​*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
 making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
 attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
 ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
 and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided and
 any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines set
 out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the E2PRV
 system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2 guidelines
 to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid claim. Players
 who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking Players’) risk.



Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels – Silver
October 31, 2023- Sydney, Australia – Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels. You
may have heard these mentioned before, or seen our weekly Resource release
announcements. But what are they and what role do they play in the Earth 2 EcoSim?

To understand how Prospecting Cydroids, Resources and Prime Jewels relate to each other,
and most importantly, how you will be able to use them in your own EcoSim adventures,
continue reading this article!

A QUICK RECAP
Resources

Just like our planet Earth, Earth 2 also has Resources that are distributed across virtual
land, uniquely based on their geolocation. There will initially be 32 official Resources that
will form the foundation for the core building aspect of the EcoSim, 13 of which are still
currently available via the E2PRV system.

If you have a specific Resource on your property you will have the ability to mine that
Resource by gaining its Occurrence Units(OUs) which will in turn be processed by the
Weaver into Raw Materials. Through a variety of different types of factories, Raw Materials
will then be used as the core ingredients for creating over 200 unique Building Blocks
required for constructing a variety of Buildings, Factories, Power Cells, Engines (for various
types of transportation), Energy Producing Technologies, Advert Billboards, Machinery,
Military-Grade Technologies, and more inside Earth 2’s open 3D world, E2V1.

Prime Jewels

As their name alludes to, Prime Jewels have the ability to prime the Resource they are linked
to. This can be done by slotting the Prime Jewel associated with the Resource you want to
prime into your Mentar. To put it simply, slotting will enable the Mentar to read and collect
the specific Resource’s Occurrence Units.
​See the full list of released Resources and their associated Prime Jewels below. A new
 Resource from the chart is released weekly so make sure to keep an eye out for our
 announcements!

Prospecting Cydroids

Prospecting Cydroids are the product of modifications made to the base model Raiding
Cydroids, which have typically been built and used to raid neighbouring properties of their
unstable E-ther – to date. While the ability to modify Raiding Cydroids has not yet been
enabled, the revelation of exactly which Cydroids are linked to which Resource/s allows
Players to prepare the Cydroids corresponding to the Resources that are abundant on their
property/ies.

It is important to note that in order to modify a First Edition (a.k.a. Raiding) Cydroid, you
will need to follow a process which involves fusing the relevant Primary Jewel with the
relevant Cydroid – to refresh your memory more information can be found in our previous
announcement https://earth2.io/news/major-ecosim-update under ‘Prospecting Cydroids’.

Now with P2P trading of Cydroids in the Earth 2 Bazaar, it is easier than ever to get the
Cydroid you need for the Resources you have on your property. Here is a list of all the
Resources released to date, including the Cydroids and Jewels associated with Round 1
Resources which are no longer available to claim. This list will progressively grow as we
announce 1 Resource and the corresponding Cydroid and Jewel each week.

Latest Confirmed Resource
Silver (Available to claim via E2PRV)

More than just a precious metal, Silver has excellent electrical and thermal conductivity.
Commonly used in electronics such as solar power and other technical applications.

Previously Confirmed Resources
DISCOVERY TIER 1

Iron (No longer available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and often a great material of choice, Iron is an essential component for many objects
in Earth 2. Refining and processing Iron into different types of steel achieves good
compressive strength for buildings yet also achieves structural strength for vehicles.

Water (Special distribution via E2V1)

The source of life itself, Water is needed to sustain your population and agriculture. In
addition, Water has various industrial applications, including purifying (e.g. electrolysis and
ultrasonic cleaning) and cooling metals.

Limestone (No longer available to claim via E2PRV)
​A sturdy natural resource, Limestone is used to create concrete for building infrastructure.
 It is also used in the production of glass and can be processed to help soil in farming.

DISCOVERY TIER 2

Bauxite (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

The primary source of aluminium in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Zinc (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

DISCOVERY TIER 3

Tin (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

Nickel (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

Tungsten (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

DISCOVERY TIER 4

Chromium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.
​Cobalt (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

DISCOVERY TIER 5

Platinum (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Niobium(Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Diamond (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.

DISCOVERY TIER 6

Neodymium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)
Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.

Zirconium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Zirconium is a metal with unique characteristics and is primarily found in the mineral
zircon. Boasting a strong resistance to corrosion by acids, alkalis, and seawater, it is often
used in the nuclear industry in radioactive shielding due to its low neutron absorption
properties. Its applications extend beyond nuclear reactors, as Zirconium’s compounds also
play pivotal roles in ceramics for capacitors, foundry equipment, and many other areas of
material science.

Titanium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Highly durable and lightweight, Titanium is an essential resource for high-performance
vehicle parts, aerospace technologies, and even medical devices, due to its biocompatibility.

DISCOVERY TIER 7
​MOLYBDENUM (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

A resource with one of the highest melting points, Molybdenum is used in applications
requiring extreme heat resistance. It is crucial for advanced steel alloys, highly technological
electronics, and advanced renewable energy technologies.


Happy 3rd Anniversary Earth 2
November 5, 2023 – Sydney Australia – We’d like to wish Earth 2 and the Community a
Happy 3rd Anniversary! The past 12 months have been hands-on and arduous with Earth 2
taking a step up in the complexity of publicly released features since our last birthday
celebrations.

While these releases have been web based and may not be visually appealing, they are still
powered by robust game mechanic engines that process a significant amount of real-time
data every second of the day, and set foundations for the long term backend software
required to run future game mechanics inside E2V1. Perhaps more importantly, the
majority of these features were designed around the concept of rewarding Players who
have remained active on the Earth 2 platform while we continue building.

To mark the beginning of our birthday celebrations, and before any further releases or
announcements are made, let’s take a moment to reflect on the feature releases, updates
and progress that Earth 2 has made over the past 12 months under the new Game Design
team, as well as a number of new team members.

Seeing these updates collectively not only shows a development pipeline trend but also
demonstrates how proactive Earth 2 has been at building through what many would say
was a bear market:




November 11, 2022 – Feature Release


U2U HB TRADING v1.1 + MORE



This release saw significant updates to the U2U HB Trading Bazaar which included a
number of complex architectures such as the Royalties tracking system which has the
ability to track original creators ownership, resale history (including accurate distribution
of royalties to the original creator), and can even go as far as tracking multiple creative
ownership with accurate compensation when blueprints/holobuildings from multiple
creator-Players were involved in the sold product.

The Royalties tracking system will prove useful in future planned products for Earth 2.
​In addition to the Royalties system, the November 11 update also included :

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/u2uhbv11




November 21, 2022 – Game Design Video
DEEP DIVE GAME MECHANICS VIDEO – RAIDING



The release of a 1 hour plus video disclosing in-depth details about Cydroids and Raiding
mechanics covering details about how they fit together, UI/UX walkthroughs, various
strategies and much more.

The video can be viewed here : https://youtu.be/0Bt573CtToQ?si=yNB3r6iyMrtZsP9q




November 23, 2022 – Feature Release


E-THER and ESSENCE DECIMALISATION
A preemptive feature release that was not only required for Raiding but also to
accommodate any potential future pricing fluctuations on the Essence token price. At first
glance this update appears simple, but required a significant rework of our back end E-ther
distribution mechanics which resulted in Players receiving more frequent spawning of E-
ther on their properties.

Key point summary + other updates released on November 23 :

The original article can be found here: https://earth2.io/news/decimal-update2




November 29, 2022 – Game Design Video



DEEP DIVE GAME MECHANICS VIDEO – CIVILIANS
The release of a 30 minute plus video disclosing in-depth details about Civilian game
mechanics covering details such as its long term purpose, detailed UI/UX review, how to
synthesise, what Civilians will do, how they will work together, and more.




November 30, 2022 – Team Milestone – Player Withdrawals
​OVER $19M USD processed by Earth 2
 A milestone announcement illustrating the results of the hard work and dedication of the
 Earth 2 accounting team having processed and paying out over $19M USD in payments to
 Earth 2 Players all over the world, and the software systems our development team built to
 make sure such results were achievable. The article also points out the significant outlay of
 capital Earth 2 pays for the legal processing of such payments highlighting its dedication to
 the Earth 2 Player group.

Key points :

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/e2withdrawals




December 2, 2022 – Game Design Details


New Jewel Utility
Earth 2 Game Design confirms and provides specific details for increased Jewel utility
through the upcoming release of Cydroids and Raiding.

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/jewelsboost




December 17, 2022 – Major Footage Progress Release



E2V1 3D EARTH 2 ENGINE TECH DEMO
By far the most visually stunning release over the past 12 months, this E2V1 Tech Demo
video provided a look into the notable progress made on the Earth 2 Engine.

No cinematics or pre-rendered footage, the video was recorded real time in-engine and
displays some of the Earth 2 Engine’s various capabilities while at the same time providing
an important, easy to understand visualisation of some of the short and long term visions of
our project.

To provide an itemised list of what the demo displays would be too long to read so if you’ve
forgotten just how much this video covered, check it out again :




January 5, 2023 – Footage Release
​FLYING INSIDE EARTH 2’s 3D WORLD – E2V1
 A short video showcasing flight inside E2V1 reaching speeds of over 2,000 kph at close to
 ground level and through a megacity. This footage once again displayed the capabilities of
 the Earth 2 Engine and was a form of response to some critics claiming our tech demo video
 was pre-rendered.




March 5, 2023 – Game Design Details



CYDROID RARITIES and PROPERTY TRADING PROTOCOLS
An important Game Design release covering the mechanics of property sales when Cydroids
are tethered to a Mentar. This article also contained the first confirmation of Cydroid
rarities and how the system would work.

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/cydroid-property-trading-
rarities




March 16, 2023 – Major Feature Release



RAIDING V1 GOES LIVE ON EARTH 2!
The first major feature release of 2023, and a massive release in itself, that has been iterated
on throughout the year, Raiding was first introduced to Earth 2 Players in March, 2023.
Version 1 of Raiding would allow Players to raid unstable E-ther from neighbouring Players’
accounts, rewarding active Players at the same time as taking advantage of E-ther that
would otherwise evaporate. Many Players have greatly benefited from this feature which
enabled Players to obtain more E-ther than they would typically get through claiming E-ther
generated from their property/ies alone.

The Raiding Game Engine works in real-time on a global scale, processing massive amounts
of data on a daily basis. At a glance, it allows Players to :

Even in the absence of an official announcement over 280,000 Cydroids were built by
Players in the first 24 hours after the stealth deployment.

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/raiding-v1




March 16, 2023 – Footage Release
​FOOTAGE OF RAIDING INSIDE E2V1
 In conjunction with the official Raiding v1 article on March 16, a sneak peek video
 showcasing Cydroids raiding E-ther inside E2V1 was published which included a high level
 overview of the Raiding system.

Check out the video here : https://youtu.be/BgWufr9VmzA?si=x0e30a8ya8QZRNHL




March 29, 2023 – Feature Updates
UPDATES AND IMPROVEMENTS TO RAIDING
Less than 1 month after major feature Raiding and Cydroids went live, Earth 2 released a
number of updates and improvements to the Raiding system based on Community feedback
and our own internal ongoing QA. Some of these improvements included :

The original article can be found here :https://earth2.io/news/raiding-update-1




April 1, 2023 – Feature Release



RED ENERGY
The first of multiple energy types, Red Energy, was deployed for the first time in April 2023.
It marked the first of the RBAs (Rewards, Badges and Achievements) and rewarded Players
for successfully completing a task of conflict. Red Energy was released as a prerequisite for
Civilians but to celebrate its release a temporary limited time utility was created allowing
successful Raiders to use their Red Energy to directly purchase new T1 land.

The original article can be found here :https://earth2.io/news/red-energy




April 14, 2023 – Feature Reopening



E2PRV REOPENS
The E2 Player Resource Validation system was reopened to officially release Silver and
Copper Resources. The reopening came with a number of adjustments to the previous
model including :


The original article can be found here :https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper
​April 20, 2023 – Feature Release


E-THER TRANSACTIONS
The E-ther Transactions update was required for synthesising Civilians and while it visually
appeared to be a simple update on the front end of the website, considerable updates to the
server back end and processing systems were required. Behind closed doors our BE
developers considered this a major update.

The original article can be found here :https://earth2.io/news/ether-update




April 22, 2023 – Special Event


SUPERCHARGED E-THER EARTH 2 DAY
This year Earth 2 released a special 500% E-ther boost on Earth 2 Day benefitting active
Earth 2 Players claiming their E-ther, especially on this day!

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/earth2day-2023




May 3, 2023 – Game Design Details



EARTH 2’s FIRST SUSTENANCE SYSTEM
This Game Design reveal was the first time Players learned about the existence of a
sustenance system for Civilians which would change many of the expected dynamics of the
auto-raid system giving Players more to think about and strategise toward.

The article covered an in-depth explanation of how the sustenance system would function
including key details such as how much Red Energy each Civilian would require, the
frequency of sustenance required, and what would occur if a Civilian ran out of Red Energy.
The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/civilian-sustenance




May 17, 2023 – Game Design Details



CIVILIAN XP + RAID COMMANDER TARGETING SYSTEM
The next surprise additions to the Civilian Game Design came in the form of Civilian XP and
the Raid Commander Targeting system. The original Game Design scope did not include an
XP system or an automated targeting system.
​These two systems combined with the sustenance system were expansions to the original
 concept and while their design and development pushed back the official release of
 Civilians, collectively they also introduced a number of new playing dynamics with more
 robust game loops.

Without listing every detail, at a high level this now meant that Civilians could be trained or
learn to be more efficient as their XP increased as a result of successful raiding missions.
The more XP they earned, the higher their Mastery Level, the faster they could work
without supervision.

The design of the Riad Commander Civilian’s auto-targeting system utilising Favourite icons
of multiple shapes and colours combined with the chronological order of the recently raided
list now meant that Players could adopt multiple strategies in targeting and retargeting
properties in their cross hairs.

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/civilians-xp-target-system




June 9, 2023 – Major Feature Release



CIVILIANS OFFICIALLY LIVE ON EARTH 2
The highly anticipated release of Civilians went live on Earth 2 in early June. This feature
included all previously promised Game Design specifications plus the addition of Red
Energy Sustenance, the XP system and the Raid Commander Targeting system.

This feature release was extensive and included a long list of updates, some of those being :

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/civilians-live




June 18, 2023 – Major Game Design Details Release



THE WEAVER, PROSPECTING CYDROIDS and RESOURCES
June saw a major release of in-depth core game design details and mechanics for core facets
from the next phase of the EcoSim. A number of the designs from the previous design team
had to be reworked and in some cases complete gaps filled before the overall design could
be brought back to a stage where we could confidently share details with our Players.

Overall this took months of reworking, replanning, running simulations, crunching figures
and ensuring various systems were designed in a way that would work together. The
reworking had to be completed to a position 5 steps ahead so we could then trace back to
release the step 1 details which were covered in this article.
​Often our Players understandably feel that the feature we are releasing at the time of
 release is the full focus for the game design team, but this announcement served as a
 reminder that game design is well ahead of development now and works in parallel
 designing future features while also actively helping with the release of current features
 seen by the public.

This particular game design release included details such as :

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/major-ecosim-update
June 18, 2023 – Game Design Video



GAME MECHANICS VIDEO – ECOSIM ARTICLE BREAKDOWN
In conjunction with the Major Game Design Details release, Shane also recorded an almost 1
hour video covering the article and sharing further thoughts and details with the Earth 2
Community.

The video can be viewed here : https://youtu.be/qknZH1kPnCs?si=mL02d2jO3n-_oaEh




July 5, 2023 – Feature Release



OPTIONAL CAMPAIGN – WOOD, WATER, SAND
In order to avoid potential inconsistencies between our satellite based website map and our
3D world, E2V1, it was determined that these 3 crucial Resources should have location and
distribution confirmed inside E2V1 at a later date.

Because of this, the wood, water and sand optional campaign was created to provide
Players with an avenue to backdate Occurrence Units for these specific Resources which
included a little bit of rule bending.

A number of software adjustments on our back end system were required to accommodate
for this optional campaign, but the summary is that Players were provided with a 7 week
window to slot relevant Prime Jewels for wood, water or sand, onto their properties along
with HoloBuildings to gain the opportunity to receive fully backdated OUs with a bonus
boost being offered on properties that had not yet detected any Resources.

While most of the work on this feature happened in the back end, some front end work such
as updates to the resource filter on the Jewel Slotting page were made in connection with
this release.

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/wood-water-sand-campaign
​July 22, 2023 – Feature Release



NEW LOOK JEWELS + INVENTORY UI UPDATE
This release comprised of two parts, the revealing of the new look Jewels and a rework and
design of the Jewel Inventory pages.

The Jewels were completely redesigned to move away from the cartoonish feel and move
toward a more realistic feel which would be better suited inside of E2V1. Our game design
team worked very closely with concept art to meticulously redesign each and every Jewel
around 3 base types of crystalline, polished and coarse.

The Jewel Inventory’s new UI was designed to improve the ability to find and slot Jewels as
well as to match the yet to be released (at the time) Cydroid slotting UI. Though it appears
simple, the Jewel Inventory pages contain a number of complicated mechanisms which
required some heavy focus from our FE team to ensure all mechanisms worked correctly
after being connected to the new interface.

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/jewels-and-inventory-
update




July 23, 2023 – Feature Release



RESOURCES OVERVIEW PROFILE PAGE
The Resources Overview release included a new feature that would assist Players in getting
a clearer picture of their Resource ownership across properties in their land portfolio.
Though the page started with a mere handful of D1 Resources, it has now grown to cover a
much more extensive list of Resources and provides valuable information to Players on a
daily basis.

The original article can be found here : https://earth2.io/news/resources-overview
July 28, 2023 – Feature Release



PROFILE OVERVIEW
The Profile Overview was a sizable Feature Release that provided Players with a centralised
overview of various items they own on the Earth 2 platform. This update not only allowed
Players to gain a valuable insight into the breakdown of their accumulated digital items but
​also provides a historical chart which displays comparative line graphs to track Player
 trends in key generation, collection and other activities.

The original article can be found here : Profile Overview V1 – News – Earth 2®




August 8, 2023 – Feature Update



REDUCED E2PRV REJECTION LOSS
Adjustments were made to the Earth 2 Player Resource Validation system to reduce the
Essence loss of an unsuccessful claim or stake from 100% to 20% for released Resources
from Copper and Silver onwards.

The original article can be found here : REDUCED E2PRV REJECTION LOSS + GUIDELINE
REMINDERS – News – Earth 2®




August 10, 2023 – Game Design Details



BRILLIANT JEWEL COPY EFFECT
This article saw the release of some juicy details explaining the Brilliant Jewel COPY effect
and how it would function in the future. In addition to this exciting new ability, it was also
confirmed that the full secret abilities of Brilliant Jewels have not yet been fully discovered
leaving an open door for more unique utility in the future!

The original article can be found here : Brilliant Ability Revealed – the ‘COPY EFFECT’ –
News – Earth 2®




August 11, 2023 – Feature Release



COLLECTIVE JEWEL BOOST OVERVIEW
A very useful update to the Jewel Slotting page, this release provided Players with a nice
overview summarising the collective boost total results from multiple Jewels being slotted
on the same Mentar. This summary shows how many Jewels are slotted and the total end
percentage once any reductions are accounted for giving the Player a clear indication of
what type of boosts they will expect around Resources in the future.

The original article can be found here : NEW JEWEL BOOST OVERVIEW FOR RESOURCES –
News – Earth 2®
​August 17, 2023 – Major Feature Release


CYDROID JEWEL SLOTTING & MANAGEMENT
Highly anticipated since the release of Cydroids to the platform, the release of the Cydroid
Management interface would allow Players to manage their Cydroids across their portfolio
of properties. But more importantly within this interface, Players would be able to slot
Jewels into a Cydroid to receive a multitude of different desired Boost effects.

This feature release further extended Utility for Jewels and opened up a number of new
strategies for Players Raiding E-ther with the new-found opportunity to make their
Cydroids :

These boosts vary based on the quality of each Jewel meaning there are multiple sub-
categories per boost type and the system needed to be designed in such a way that Jewels
are locked when actively being used by the Cydroids.Furthermore, the interface for slotting
Cydroids was developed to be dynamic allowing Players to conveniently visualise the
results of their Jewel slotting instantly.

The original article can be found here : Cydroid Management Update & Cydroid Slotting –
News – Earth 2®




August 28, 2023 – Major Feature Release


P2P BAZAAR CYDROID TRADING
This major release being developed in parallel with Cydroid slotting saw the first new
digital item become tradable between Players on the Bazaar for some time. It was a clear
extension of Earth 2’s player-to-player trading system and perfectly aligned with our
ideology to give Players control over the digital items they own, including the ability to sell
those items in an open, Player-driven market.

This feature also provides the opportunity for new Players who do not yet have the
opportunity to gather Essence quickly enough, to purchase a Cydroid locked, loaded and
ready to take advantage of raiding opportunities.

The Cydroid Bazaar was a significant release, so to refresh your memory, the original article
can be found here : P2P Cydroid Trading NOW LIVE – News – Earth 2®




September 5, 2023 – Feature Release
​JEWEL BAZAAR UPDATE
 This update brought the Jewel Bazaar UI up to date and in line with the recently released
 Cydroid Bazaar. The update included implementation of the Earth 2 dark theme but
 perhaps more notably saw the introduction of bulk buying Jewels become available to
 Players.

This release also included a new filter in the Marketplace which allowed Players to search
for specific size properties for sale by other Players.

The original article can be found here : Jewel Bazaar Update, Jewels Bulk Buy & New
Marketplace Filter – News – Earth 2®




September 19 2023 – Major Feature Release


P2P CIVILIAN TRADING
The Civilian Bazaar introduced another avenue of player-to-player trading opportunities
into the Bazaar by providing a place for Players to buy and sell their Civilians. This update
introduced new earning opportunities due to the fact Players could set individual prices on
each Civilian based on harder to synthesise factions, XP points and Levels.

The Civilian Bazaar was a significant release, so to refresh your memory, the original article
can be found here : P2P Civilian Trading LIVE – News – Earth 2®




October, 2023 – Resource Releases



RESOURCE RELEASES
During October we saw 5 new Resource releases and the details of 4 Resources spread
between D1-D3 confirmed. Each release of a new Resource requires updates from the FE
and BE team who need to work together with QA to ensure :

This is handled by team members while they are focusing on other development tasks, but
it’s worth noting the Resource releases do involve a number of steps. Furthermore, Game
Design and Concept Art work together to :

In total, 16 new Resources have been processed and published to date during our very busy
schedule developing other upcoming features.

The most recent article can be found here : Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels
– Silver – News – Earth 2®

THANK YOU
​Thank you for taking the time to look over our achievements these past 12 months.
 Collectively they really do demonstrate how proactive we’ve been designing, developing
 and releasing products all while progressing on E2V1 and other facets of the Earth 2
 platform.

We can confirm that we do have a number of features, details and videos to release over the
remaining part of this year through November and December, but some of these releases
are interdependent and may take longer than anticipated to stabilise, therefore we have
decided not to provide a list in this article to avoid the possibility of disappointment within
the Community.

While we will try to provide a few hints in the next article, looking back on what we have
achieve the past 12 months and considered where we are now at with E2V1, we are most
excited and looking forward to where we will be in 12 months from now!

Fun Fact: The Avatar featured in the image for this article is one of the first of its kind
created by the Earth 2 team using our own internal Avatar pipeline we have been
developing behind closed doors. All of her clothing items are also 100% custom made by
our own internal 3D modelling team.



Resource Release: Boron
November 6, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – Boron is currently available to claim via the E2PRV
system! Remember that Discovery Tier 7 Resources onwards will only be mineable on Tier
1 properties.

Earth 2 made a promise in the past that Tier 1 land would receive additional Resources, and
that promise starts from Discovery Tier 7. The higher the Discovery Tier, the more advanced
the technological product the raw materials will contribute toward.


Earth 2 has allowed for most of the new Discovery Tier Resources to remain openly
claimable by any Player. However, after a period of time, these will close and may only open
periodically, with the higher tier Resources opening less frequently and for shorter periods
of time, if ever. Earth 2 may also allocate new locations for various Resources in the future
but these will predominantly be focused on new land rewarding Players who explore and
scan inside E2 and these locations may be scarce, meaning that the higher tier Resources
secured on land through the E2PRV system today may end up becoming the major source of
such Resource ownership and control long term!

Resource releases are a great opportunity for any Players who own property in Earth 2 and
believe they have Boron (or any active released Resources) present in their land to submit a
claim. By making an E2PRV claim, Players can win some Essence and the Resource
distributed on their property if the claim is approved!

To easily see which Resources have been released and whether any of your properties have
them, you can check out the recently released Resources Overview tab in your profile page.
​If you missed it, you can check out the announcement about the Resources Overview release
 here.

New Resources Released: (as at 6 November, 2023)

An all-rounder with its uses in creating glass and ceramics, enhancing the quality of steel,
and as an essential nutrient in agriculture, Boron is also used in the control rods of nuclear
reactors.

Previously Released Resources

A resource with one of the highest melting points, Molybdenum is used in applications
requiring extreme heat resistance. It is crucial for advanced steel alloys, highly technological
electronics, and advanced renewable energy technologies.

Highly durable and lightweight, Titanium is an essential resource for high-performance
vehicle parts, aerospace technologies, and even medical devices, due to its biocompatibility.

Zirconium is a metal with unique characteristics and is primarily found in the mineral
zircon. Boasting a strong resistance to corrosion by acids, alkalis, and seawater, it is often
used in the nuclear industry in radioactive shielding due to its low neutron absorption
properties. Its applications extend beyond nuclear reactors, as Zirconium’s compounds also
play pivotal roles in ceramics for capacitors, foundry equipment, and many other areas of
material science.

Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.

Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
​are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
 well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.


Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

The primary source of aluminum in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
commonly found in electronic devices.

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements
efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

Helpful E2PRV Information and Guidelines

An explanation of the E2PRV system is available to read here:
https://earth2.io/news/e2prv-silver-copper

The most up to date guidelines on how to submit a valid E2PRV claim can be found in this
article, under the Guidelines for Claim Submission heading:
https://earth2.io/news/copper-silver-guidelines

Below is a useful table showcasing which Jewels are associated with each released
Resource:

*N.B. The CAT have provided a list of approved ores/minerals in order to assist Players in
making a valid claim. However, Resource claim validation and Frequency Category
attribution is always at the sole discretion of the Earth 2 CAT and there is no guarantee that
ores/minerals not confirmed by Earth 2 will be approved. The above list of approved ores
and minerals is also not a guarantee of approval, as valid evidence must still be provided
and any other criteria for validation must also be met. Please remember that the guidelines
set out by Earth 2 are designed to assist and safeguard Players who participate in the
E2PRV system. Players should exclusively, carefully and precisely follow official Earth 2
guidelines to mitigate any loss of Essence or Assurance Fees due to submitting an invalid
​claim. Players who choose to ignore official guidelines do so at their own (and fellow staking
 Players’) risk.



Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels – Oil
November 7, 2023- Sydney, Australia – Prospecting Cydroids, Resources & Prime Jewels.
You may have heard these mentioned before, or seen our weekly Resource release
announcements. But what are they and what role do they play in the Earth 2 EcoSim?

To understand how Prospecting Cydroids, Resources and Prime Jewels relate to each other,
and most importantly, how you will be able to use them in your own EcoSim adventures,
continue reading this article!

A QUICK RECAP
Resources

Just like our planet Earth, Earth 2 also has Resources that are distributed across virtual
land, uniquely based on their geolocation. There will initially be 32 official Resources that
will form the foundation for the core building aspect of the EcoSim, 13 of which are still
currently available via the E2PRV system.

If you have a specific Resource on your property you will have the ability to mine that
Resource by gaining its Occurrence Units(OUs) which will in turn be processed by the
Weaver into Raw Materials. Through a variety of different types of factories, Raw Materials
will then be used as the core ingredients for creating over 200 unique Building Blocks
required for constructing a variety of Buildings, Factories, Power Cells, Engines (for various
types of transportation), Energy Producing Technologies, Advert Billboards, Machinery,
Military-Grade Technologies, and more inside Earth 2’s open 3D world, E2V1.

Prime Jewels


As their name alludes to, Prime Jewels have the ability to prime the Resource they are linked
to. This can be done by slotting the Prime Jewel associated with the Resource you want to
prime into your Mentar. To put it simply, slotting will enable the Mentar to read and collect
the specific Resource’s Occurrence Units.

See the full list of released Resources and their associated Prime Jewels below. A new
Resource from the chart is released weekly so make sure to keep an eye out for our
announcements!

Prospecting Cydroids

Prospecting Cydroids are the product of modifications made to the base model Raiding
Cydroids, which have typically been built and used to raid neighbouring properties of their
unstable E-ther – to date. While the ability to modify Raiding Cydroids has not yet been
enabled, the revelation of exactly which Cydroids are linked to which Resource/s allows
​Players to prepare the Cydroids corresponding to the Resources that are abundant on their
 property/ies.

It is important to note that in order to modify a First Edition (a.k.a. Raiding) Cydroid, you
will need to follow a process which involves fusing the relevant Primary Jewel with the
relevant Cydroid – to refresh your memory more information can be found in our previous
announcement https://earth2.io/news/major-ecosim-update under ‘Prospecting Cydroids’.

Now with P2P trading of Cydroids in the Earth 2 Bazaar, it is easier than ever to get the
Cydroid you need for the Resources you have on your property. Here is a list of all the
Resources released to date, including the Cydroids and Jewels associated with Round 1
Resources which are no longer available to claim. This list will progressively grow as we
announce 1 Resource and the corresponding Cydroid and Jewel each week.

Latest Confirmed Resource
Oil (No longer available to claim via E2PRV)

Oil stands as the cornerstone of industrial prowess. Not only is it the catalyst for crafting
versatile materials like plastics and rubbers, it also fuels the flames of progress, serving as a
vital petrochemical source and essential heating agent.

Previously Confirmed Resources
DISCOVERY TIER 1

Iron (No longer available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and often a great material of choice, Iron is an essential component for many objects
in Earth 2. Refining and processing Iron into different types of steel achieves good
compressive strength for buildings yet also achieves structural strength for vehicles.

Water (Special distribution via E2V1)

The source of life itself, Water is needed to sustain your population and agriculture. In
addition, Water has various industrial applications, including purifying (e.g. electrolysis and
ultrasonic cleaning) and cooling metals.

Limestone (No longer available to claim via E2PRV)

A sturdy natural resource, Limestone is used to create concrete for building infrastructure.
It is also used in the production of glass and can be processed to help soil in farming.

DISCOVERY TIER 2

Bauxite (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

The primary source of aluminium in the world, bauxite is used to create a metal that is light,
strong, and resistant to corrosion. It is vital for modern transportation, packaging, and
construction. Combined with other alloying metals, it can reach excellent yield strength and
​is suitable for light, high-speed crafts. Furthermore, due to its excellent conductivity, it is
 commonly found in electronic devices.

Zinc (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Primarily used in galvanizing Iron to prevent rust reducing maintenance requirements

efficiently. Indium, derived from Zinc, plays a crucial role in the electronics systems and the
performance of vehicles.

DISCOVERY TIER 3

Silver (Available to claim via E2PRV)

More than just a precious metal, Silver has excellent electrical and thermal conductivity.
Commonly used in electronics such as solar power and other technical applications.

Tin (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

An excellent ingredient for various special alloys. Together with Niobium it can be used to
create one of the highest conductive materials for electronics. Together with Vanadium it
can be used to create high performance building blocks required for special applications
and purposes.

Nickel (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Resilient and versatile, Nickel is used in stainless steel production and various other alloys.
It is also a vital component in rechargeable Power Cells.

Tungsten (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Known for its incredibly high melting point, Tungsten is vital for high-stress, high-
temperature applications. Perfect for use in military and industrial applications that involve
high-temperature processes such as metalworking or glass-making, Tungsten may be used
for parts of furnaces or other equipment that must withstand intense heat.

DISCOVERY TIER 4
Chromium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Shiny and resistant to tarnishing, Chromium is commonly used in the creation of stainless
steel and is an alloy within the family of “super alloys” called Inconels. These super alloys
are known for their ability to withstand extreme conditions of temperature and pressure, as
well as their resistance to oxidation, corrosion, and creep deformation.

Cobalt (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Strong and magnetically responsive, Cobalt is used in the production of super alloys like
Maraging Steel 300 but also for strong magnets, such as Samarium-Cobalt Magnets, used in
electrical transportations.
​DISCOVERY TIER 5

Platinum (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Rare and resistant to wear and tarnish, platinum is one of the least reactive metals and
shows significant resistance to tarnishing and corrosion, even at high temperatures which
makes it a great protectant on high yield strength metals operating in harsh environments.
Platinum is also used in high-end electronics.

Niobium(Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Known for its super-conductive properties, Niobium is a high-end resource for advanced
high performance electronic devices and a super alloy for advanced aeronautic
constructions.

Diamond (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Beyond its use as a gemstone, the hardest material in the world, Diamond is used in high-
precision tools and can be a critical component in advanced technologies.

DISCOVERY TIER 6

Neodymium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Essential in the creation of the world’s most powerful magnets, Neodymium is used in
everything from electric motors to hard disk drives and headphones.

Zirconium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Zirconium is a metal with unique characteristics and is primarily found in the mineral
zircon. Boasting a strong resistance to corrosion by acids, alkalis, and seawater, it is often
used in the nuclear industry in radioactive shielding due to its low neutron absorption
properties. Its applications extend beyond nuclear reactors, as Zirconium’s compounds also
play pivotal roles in ceramics for capacitors, foundry equipment, and many other areas of
material science.

Titanium (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

Highly durable and lightweight, Titanium is an essential resource for high-performance
vehicle parts, aerospace technologies, and even medical devices, due to its biocompatibility.

DISCOVERY TIER 7

MOLYBDENUM (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

A resource with one of the highest melting points, Molybdenum is used in applications
requiring extreme heat resistance. It is crucial for advanced steel alloys, highly technological
electronics, and advanced renewable energy technologies.
​BORON (Currently available to claim via E2PRV)

An all-rounder with its uses in creating glass and ceramics, enhancing the quality of steel,
and as an essential nutrient in agriculture, Boron is also used in the control rods of nuclear
reactors.
​Earth2 Homepage and TOS:

Welcome to Earth 2, our world’s Geolocational Metaverse, meaning that the location you’re
standing right now in the real world will also be digitally represented inside of Earth 2.
We are building a pristine 1:1 scale digital replication of our planet Earth. Earth 2 is one of
the most successful startups in history and has grown into the biggest Virtual Land Registry
in the world with over 100 million tile land parcels sold.

At Earth 2, we think of the Metaverse as a Massive-Open-Seamless-World that people
instinctively relate to through the perception of what exists and what is real around them.
We strive to evolve into a new metaphysical presence and cement our place in the history of
the Internet’s evolution.



Own & Develop Your Land
Buy available land tiles from anywhere in the world or check the marketplace to see who is
selling theirs. There are millions of dollars worth of Player-to-Players land traded every
year.

Land Owners can participate in the EcoSim by building a Mentar to begin detecting E-ther.
Over time you can decide how to take your land’s development to the next level.



Own or Free to Play
Whether you dream of owning multiple land plots, being a master harvester, building an
empire, or you just want to Free-to-Play by running around & exploring Earth 2. Our
platform is designed to let you play it your way, enjoy your experiences & potentially get
rewarded.


Unleash Your Inner Creator
Unleash your inner creator & design holobuildings that reach for the stars, make interesting
tile art to be found easier from above, create desirable EPLs or just create new Jewels by
crafting them to sell on the Bazaar.

Did you know that there have been over 25,000 holobuilding sales in the weeks follow its
launch with the top 3 selling for over $700 USD each?

In the future, Players will also be able to design interiors, customize color combinations,
create digital assets & environments and more!
​Digital Items
 The Bazaar is where all the Digital Item trading takes place. Whether you want to sell any of
 the 41 different collected or crafted Jewels, Holobuildings or other items in the future, this is
 the place to be!

Players can also list their creations as limited editions or receive ongoing royalties for every
future resale of their product!

In the near future, Players will not only be able to trade Land, Jewels & Holobuildings, but
Cydroids, Civilians, Raw Materials, Building Blocks, Power Cells & more!

Did you know that items on the Bazaar can be sold for E$ which can be withdrawn in USD!
Players have already traded over $2.5m worth of Jewels alone on the Earth 2 platform.



Essence Token
Essence is Power!

Find out how you can get Essence!

Worlds within a World, within the World
Our vision with Earth 2 is to create a digital representation of our world and migrate 2D
web experiences into 3D spaces. A Metaverse that creates an online experiential space
where people can build, trade, live, interact, and create their own story.


Privacy Policy
Earth 2 is a futuristic concept for a second earth, a meta-verse, between virtual and physical
reality in which real-world geolocations on a sectioned map correspond to user-generated
digital virtual environments. Once fully developed, these environments will be able to be
owned, bought, sold and deeply customized and will evolve over time limited only by users’
imaginations.
Earth 2 (and its related bodies corporate) (referred to in this document as we, us or our)
recognizes that your privacy is very important and we are committed to protecting the
personal information we collect from you. The Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) (Privacy Act), and the
Australian Privacy Principles (APPs) govern the way in which we manage your personal
information and this policy sets out how we collect, use, disclose and otherwise manage
personal information about you.

Earth 2 is a futuristic concept for a second earth, a meta-verse, between virtual and physical
reality in which real-world geolocations on a sectioned map correspond to user-generated
digital virtual environments. Once fully developed, these environments will be able to be
owned, bought, sold and deeply customized and will evolve over time limited only by users’
imaginations.
​Earth 2 (and its related bodies corporate) (referred to in this document as we, us or our)
 recognises that your privacy is very important and we are committed to protecting the
 personal information we collect from you. The Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) (Privacy Act), and the
 Australian Privacy Principles (APPs) govern the way in which we manage your personal
 information and this policy sets out how we collect, use, disclose and otherwise manage
 personal information about you.



Collection
We may collect and hold personal information about you, that is, information that can
identify you, and is relevant to facilitating our relationship with you and your use of our
website (including the Earth 2 platform).

The kinds of information we typically collect include:

and other information relevant to providing you with access to our website, the Earth 2
platform and other information or services you request or consent to receive from us.

We may also incidentally collect and hold sensitive information about you, including
information about your health, religious beliefs or affiliations, racial or ethnic origin,
political opinions and sexual preferences or practices. While we do not actively collect these
from you as part of your use of the website or your transactions in the Earth 2 platform, if
you use any of the social elements of the platform, including chat or video functions (if
available), this information may be passively collected and stored on our systems, and be
viewable by other users.




Method of Collection
Personal information will generally be collected directly from you through the use of any of
our standard forms, over the internet (including through our registration page), via email,
or through a telephone conversation with you. Collection may also occur through your use
of the Earth 2 platform (such as through chat or video functions (if available), or by
otherwise interacting with other users).

We may also collect personal information about you from third parties acting on your
behalf, particularly if you are required to have your parent or guardian act on your behalf.

There may, however, be some instances where personal information about you will be
collected indirectly because it is unreasonable or impractical to collect personal information
directly from you. We will usually notify you about these instances in advance, or where that
is not possible, as soon as reasonably practicable after the information has been collected.
​Finally, you should be aware that other users may collect your personal information, such as
 through screen shots or recording video streams (if available), and this is out of our control.
 Users are not required to comply with our Privacy Policy and may not be required to comply
 with privacy laws either as they are acting in a personal capacity.



Purpose of Collection
The personal information that we collect and hold about you, depends on your interaction
with us. Generally, we will collect, use and hold your personal information if it is reasonably
necessary for or directly related to the performance of our functions and activities and
specifically for the purposes of:

Except as otherwise permitted by law, we only collect sensitive information about you if you
consent to the collection of the information (which you do if you use the social functions of
the platform, as explained above) and if the information is reasonably necessary for the
performance of our functions, as set out above.


Failure to Provide Information
If the personal information you provide to us is incomplete or inaccurate, we may be unable
to provide you, or someone else you know, with the services you, or they, are seeking.



Internet Users
If you access our website, we may collect additional personal information about you in the
form of your IP address and domain name.

Our website may contain links to other websites. We are not responsible for the privacy
practices of linked websites and linked websites are not subject to our privacy policies and
procedures.

Our website uses cookies. The main purpose of cookies is to identify users and to prepare
customized web pages for them. Cookies do not identify you personally, but they may link
back to a database record about you. We use cookies to monitor usage of our website and to
create a personal record of when you visit our website and what pages you view so that we
may serve you more effectively.

All transactions are stored on the block chain that underpins this service. That means that a
permanent record of those transactions are maintained as a necessary part of the
functioning of the service. While we employ data minimisation techniques, it is not possible
to remove all data as the block chain requires that data to maintain the permanent record of
the transactions.
​Children under 15
 We recognise the special considerations that apply to children’s privacy. Any registration
 for the Earth 2 service – and related data collection - will be done with the consent of a
 parent or guardian if the user is identified as being under 15.




Use and Disclosure


Disclosure of Personal Information Overseas
We are likely to disclose personal information about you overseas. For instance, our related
bodies corporate, third party service providers or other recipients may be based overseas
or may use infrastructure outside Australia, including the United States of America and the
United Kingdom.



Security
We store your personal information in different ways, including in paper and in electronic
form. The security of your personal information is important to us. We take all reasonable
measures to ensure that your personal information is stored safely to protect it from
interference, misuse, loss, unauthorised access, modification or disclosure, including
electronic and physical security measures



Access and Correction
You may seek access the personal information we hold about you, upon making a written
request. We will respond to your request within a reasonable period. We may charge you a
reasonable fee for processing your request (but not for making the request for access).

We may decline a request for access to personal information in circumstances prescribed by
the Privacy Act, and if we do, we will give you a written notice that sets out the reasons for
the refusal (unless it would be unreasonable to provide those reasons), including details of
the mechanisms available to you to make a complaint.

If, upon receiving access to your personal information or at any other time, you believe the
personal information we hold about you is inaccurate, incomplete or out of date, please
notify us immediately. We will take reasonable steps to correct the information so that it is
accurate, complete and up to date. However, requests to amend information which is held
on the transaction block chain may not be able to be accommodated as the purpose of that
block chain is to maintain a permanent record of all in-platform land transactions.
​If we refuse to correct your personal information, we will give you a written notice that sets
 out our reasons for our refusal (unless it would be unreasonable to provide those reasons),
 including details of the mechanisms available to you to make a complaint.
 Terms & Conditions




Introduction




Earth 2 is a futuristic concept for a second earth, a meta-verse, between virtual and physical
reality in which real-world geolocations on a sectioned map correspond to user-generated
digital virtual environments. Once fully developed, these environments will be able to be
owned, bought, sold and deeply customized and will evolve over time limited only by users’
imaginations.

Earth 2 will be a digital and virtual world being a 1:1 scale of the planet Earth, which will
then set a stage on which a much wider set of activities besides world-building can take
place. We are undertaking this massive project in two stages.

In Phase 1 (Stage 1), we will launch our Website which will include a global trading
platform for ownership of Virtual Land inside Earth 2. It will enable users to explore the
concept, and buy, sell, trade, bid, search and select Virtual Land to purchase in Earth 2.

In Stage 2, we will go live with the interactive Earth 2 platform, and players can interact
with one another inside the Earth 2 environment. We currently expect the Earth
2environment to be launched in the near future with a firm release date pending.

These Website terms and conditions are made up of three parts:

Part A – which applies to all users of our Website, whether you are just browsing, or are a
registered user capable of buying and selling Virtual Land;

Part B – which applies to all registered users of the Website;

Part C – which applies to all registered users of the Website when they buy or sell Virtual
Land; and

Annexure A – Digital Asset Terms

Separately, our Privacy Policy sets out how we handle your personal information, including
personal information collected through this Website.



Part A
This website is operated by Earth Version 2 Pty Ltd and it's subsidiaries (Earth 2 UK LTD),
and comprises the publicly-facing website currently available at www.earth2.io (but
​including any new or varied URL) and the broader Earth 2 platform that is only accessible to
 registered users (Website). In these terms and conditions, the expressions we, us and our,
 are a reference to Earth Version 2 Pty Ltd.

If you use this Website, you are agreeing to be bound by the terms and conditions listed
below and any other applicable laws or regulations which apply to this Website and your
use of it. If you do not accept these terms and conditions, you are not permitted to use this
Website.

We reserve the right to amend these terms and conditions from time to time. In particular,
as we get closer to launching Stage 2, we expect to revisit these terms to accommodate the
full functionality of the Earth 2 platform, the limits of which even we are still not fully able
to comprehend.

Amendments will be effective immediately upon notification on this Website. If you do not
agree to any change to the terms, you may stop using the Website. Your continued use of
this Website following such notification will represent an agreement by you to be bound by
the terms and conditions as amended.

All intellectual property rights in this Website, including design, text, graphics, logos, icons,
sound recordings and all software relating to this Website belong to or are licensed by us.
These intellectual property rights are protected by Australian and international laws.

You may not in any form or by any means copy, adapt, reproduce (other than for the
purpose of viewing the Website in your browser), store, modify, distribute, print, upload,
display, perform, remove any credits, publish post frame within another Website or create
derivative works from any part of this Website or commercialise any information obtained
from any part of this Website without our prior written permission or, in the case of third
party material, from the owner of the intellectual property rights in that material.

This Website may contain links to other Websites. The links are provided for convenience
only and may not remain current or be maintained. We are not responsible for the content
or privacy practices associated with linked Websites.

We take data security seriously, and use industry-standard measures to protect data on our
Website (including your data on the Website) from cyber security threats. We regularly test
for weaknesses in our code and reassess our cyber security posture. We also use the
industry standard of Secure Sockets Layering (SSL) to transmit data from our Website.
Unfortunately, despite these measures, no data transmission over the internet can be
guaranteed as totally secure. We do not warrant and cannot absolutely promise the security
of any information which you transmit to us. Accordingly, any information that you transmit
to this Website is transmitted at your own risk. If you become aware of any problems with
the security of the data or the Website, please contact us immediately, providing whatever
detail you are able.
​You must ensure that your access to this Website is not illegal or prohibited by laws which
 apply to you.

Except as expressly set out in these Website terms, we do not warrant the accuracy,
adequacy or completeness of the information on this Website, nor do we undertake to keep
this Website updated.

Except as expressly set out in these Website terms or to the extent required by non-
excludable law, we do not accept responsibility for loss suffered as a result of reliance by
you on the accuracy or currency of information contained on this Website.

You must take your own precautions to ensure that the process that you employ for
accessing this Website does not expose you to the risk of viruses, malicious computer code,
or other forms of interference which may damage your own computer system.

Except as expressly set out in these Website terms or to the extent required by non-
excludable law, we are not liable for any loss or damage, however caused (including, but not
limited to, by our negligence) suffered by you in connection with these Website terms of use
or your use of this Website (even as a registered member).


If the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) or any other legislation states that there is
a guarantee in respect of goods or services supplied, and our liability for breach of that
guarantee may not be excluded but may be limited, our liability for such breach is limited to,
in the case of a supply of goods, replacing the goods or supplying equivalent goods or
repairing the goods, or in the case of supply of services, supplying the services again or
paying the cost of having the services supplied again.

You agree to indemnify us for all damages, losses, penalties, fines, expenses and costs
(including legal costs) which arise out of or relate to your use of this Website, your breach of
these Website terms, any information that you provide to us via this Website or any damage
that you may cause to this Website. This indemnification includes, without limitation,
liability relating to copyright infringement, defamation, invasion of privacy, trade mark
infringement and breaches of the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).

From time to time we may make certain offers, or carry out promotions or contests.
Additional terms may apply to those offers, promotions or contests and you must agree to
those additional terms to engage in those promotions. In the event of any inconsistency
between these Website Terms and the terms of any offer, promotion or contest, the terms of
the offer, promotion or campaign prevail over these Website Terms to the extent of any
inconsistency.

Access to this Website may be withdrawn at any time without notice. These terms and
conditions will survive any such withdrawal.
​If a dispute arises regarding the Website or these terms of use, the laws of New South
 Wales, Australia, will apply. In relation to any such dispute, you submit to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the courts of New South Wales, Australia.

If you access this Website in a jurisdiction other than New South Wales, Australia, you are
responsible for compliance with the laws of that jurisdiction, to the extent that they apply.


Part B - Registered Users
A key element of the Website as Earth 2 develops will be the interactions between users. We
encourage these rich interactions, but of course you are required to conduct yourself in a
lawful and respectful manner.

To buy and sell Virtual Land, to post information to the Website or to otherwise interact
with other users on Earth 2, you must become a member. To become a member, you must
complete your registration details in the manner described on the Website. Membership is
free but not transferable.

The registration or use of your Account by another person without obtaining our prior
express permission will result in the immediate suspension your Account. Any attempt to
do so or to assist others (users or otherwise), or the distribution of instructions, software or
tools for that purpose, will result in the Accounts of such users being terminated.

You acknowledge and agree that you are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of
your Account information, including your password, and for all activity associated with your
Account. If there is suspicious activity related to your Account, we may, but are not obligated,
to request additional information from you, including authenticating documents, and to
freeze any transactions pending our review.

Your non-compliance with any request we make in relation to your Account will result in
suspension or termination of your Account. You are required to notify us immediately of
any unauthorised use of your Account or password, or any other breach of security.

For the avoidance of doubt, any user who violates these rules may be terminated
immediately, and thereafter held liable for losses incurred by us or any affected user. You
must be 18 years of age or over to be a member of the Website. If you are under 18 years of
age you must have your parent or guardian register on your behalf.

By registering as a member of our Website, you agree to abide by the terms set out below.

We are not responsible for any user-generated content posted on, or available through, the
Website. We are entitled to monitor and moderate any user-generated content, however we
are not required to do so at all, or at any particular frequency or in any particular manner.
We will not enter into discussion about the basis of any moderation decisions, which we
make on a final basis in our sole discretion.
​We do not warrant that we will respond to questions or comments submitted by you to our
 Websites.




If you download any material from the Website, you acknowledge that we are not liable to
you for any loss or damage, however caused, arising from the downloading or subsequent
use of the downloaded material. You may not adapt, reproduce, store, distribute, transmit,
display, publish or create derivative works from any downloaded material. In addition, you
may not commercialise any information, products or services from the downloaded
material.

We do not warrant that any material you submit to the Website will be protected against
loss, misuse, or alteration by third parties. We do not warrant that we will post your
information or material to the Website. If we elect in our sole discretion to post your
material to the Website, we do not warrant that the material or information you submit will
be posted within a certain time frame or at all.

You indemnify us and our related bodies corporate and our directors and employees against
any claim by a third party arising out of a breach of these terms either by you or by any
person using your password or ID, whether or not you have authorised that person to use
your password or ID.



Part C - Buying and Selling Virtual Land in Earth 2
A key aspect of the Earth 2 platform will be the ability for registered users to buy and sell
land tiles (Virtual Land).
To be eligible to buy and sell Virtual Land, you must first register as a user of the Website as
set out in Part B above.

Each tile of Virtual Land will be a virtual equivalent to a real-world measurement of
approximately 10x10m, although they may not all be of exactly identical size. The size and
positioning of the Virtual Land is established and controlled by us in our sole discretion.

The first-sale of each tile of Virtual Land will be based on a value that we assign to it in USD.
Future sales between registered users will be struck at a price agreed between those users.

All subsequent sales of Virtual Land between registered users must be conducted through
the marketplace that we provide on the Website for that purpose (Marketplace). We do not
promise that the Marketplace will be always available, or that there will be an
uninterrupted connection between the Marketplace and any Payment Account.

Sales of Virtual Land will be conducted in credits on the Website that are equivalent to USD.
It is each user’s responsibility to ensure they have sufficient credits to perform any
transaction. Transactions made using credits are ultimately settled through payments of
​USD amounts equivalent to the Website credits, between Payment Accounts, credit cards, or
 any other method that we accept from time to time (for instance, we may in the future
 expand to accept payment in one or more crypto-currencies).

Each registered user must maintain a valid Payment Account, linked and valid credit card
(or other approved method from time to time) through which payments for Website credit-
based transactions can be made, and must ensure the details of that account are kept up to
date within the Website.

The Website will maintain a register of account balances (credits) for convenience, but the
accounts behind the payment methods are operated separately from us and we are not
responsible for their operation, balances or accuracy.

If the registered user who holds the rights in any Virtual Land (Seller) wishes to sell that
Virtual Land, it can place the land for sale on the Marketplace. Other registered users can
bid on that Virtual Land, and the successful buyer (as determined by the Seller) will become
eligible to take ownership of the Virtual Land (Buyer), subject to paying the agreed price to
the Seller for the relevant Virtual Land, and payment to us of the relevant transaction fee
(which is listed in the Marketplace) (Transaction Fee).

Without limiting any aspect of Part B of these terms, you must not acquire Virtual Land for
the purpose of inciting religious or racial tensions, or engage in any conduct or behavior in
connection with Virtual Land that is designed or is likely to incite religious or racial
tensions. In addition to other rights we may have under these terms and under applicable
law (including the right to cancel your membership without compensation), we may elect to
compulsorily acquire Virtual Land from you without notice (for the same price as you first
paid for that Virtual Land) if we reasonably consider that you have breached this clause or
clause 5 of Part B of these terms. Payment of that amount is your sole and exclusive remedy
in respect of our election to acquire that Virtual Land and is reasonably designed to protect
our legitimate interests in operating Earth 2.

The Buyer must pay the agreed price for the relevant Virtual Land in USD (or other method
that we accept from time to time), together with our Transaction Fee. Ownership in the
Virtual Land will pass on confirmation to our satisfaction of successful and complete
payment of the agreed sale price and our Transaction Fee. If payment is not successfully
received, then the sale will not proceed.

We will settle any disputes in relation to any ownership of Virtual Land according to the
process that we maintain for that purpose from time to time.

The value of Virtual Land that is not yet assigned to ‘ownership’ by any particular user is set
by us in our discretion, including by the use of algorithms that respond to various factors
including the apparent supply and demand and desirability of particular lots.
​There is no inherent value in any Virtual Land and the value in particular blocks of Virtual
 Land, and in the Virtual Land generally, may fluctuate in value from time to time by various
 factors including user demand and our algorithmic determination of land values.

Your rights in any Virtual Land are not ‘ownership’ and are conferred by contract only for
the purposes of transacting within the Website as a registered user. Those rights are
expressly subject to all of the terms that apply to use of the Website, and require you to
remain a registered user of the Website.
We reserve the right in the future to convert your holding of Virtual Land (or any equivalent
credits held in the Earth 2 platform) to an equivalent value of a crypto-currency that we
may create in the future. Any conversion would be conducted at a valuation reasonably
determined by us.

Rights in Virtual Land are not assignable from your account to any other account (other
than by ‘sale’ as contemplated by these terms). If your membership is cancelled in
accordance with these terms, or you cancel your use of the website for any reason, you
forfeit any Virtual Land assigned to your account and we are not liable to you in any way
(including without limitation for the payment of any amount in respect of the relevant
Virtual Land). Any Virtual Land so forfeited returns to ownership by us, and will be made
available for sale to other users at the price determined by us.

If we have converted Virtual Land holdings to a separate crypto currency (as permitted by
these terms), then you will maintain your rights to that crypto currency separately from
your registration to the Website, in accordance with the terms that govern that crypto
currency. Those rights will not be automatically extinguished if your membership is
cancelled.

Transactions involving Virtual Land, between us and any registered user, and between
registered users, may be subject to tax. A user is responsible for all of the taxation
consequences of its use of the Website.

To deposit or withdraw funds you must provide us with current, complete and accurate
information. Such information may include, without limitation, details such as Your full
name, country of origin and e-mail address, copies of identification as well as Your home
address, telephone number and Your bank account and/or credit/debit card information
("Personal Information"). The protection of all of Your Personal Information is regulated by
our privacy policy. You agree that You are responsible to update any of Your Personal
Information, whenever needed, so that our records are always correct. We reserve the right
to terminate Your Earth Version 2 Account and/or to refuse a deposit or a withdrawal if You
provide false, incomplete or misleading Personal Information.

You acknowledge that We may refuse, halt or reverse a withdrawal, and/or ask You to
verify Your identity as condition to withdrawal if:

(a) Definitions
​Any terms capitalised in this clause and not already defined above have the same meaning
 given to those terms in A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth).

(b) GST Exclusive

The consideration for a supply of Virtual Land does not include GST.

(c) Taxable Supply

Transactions involving Virtual Land may be a Taxable Supply and subject to GST. If a supply
involving Virtual Land is a Taxable Supply, then:

(d) Warranty that Tax Invoice is issued regarding a Taxable Supply

Where a Tax Invoice is given by the Supplier, the Supplier warrants that the Supply to which
the Tax Invoice relates is a Taxable Supply and that it will remit the GST (as stated on the Tax
Invoice) to the Australian Taxation Office.

(e) Later GST change

For clarity, the GST payable under subclause (c) is correspondingly increased or decreased
by any subsequent adjustment to the amount of GST for the Supply for which the Supplier is
liable, however caused.

(f) Reimbursement or indemnity

If either party has the right under this document to be reimbursed or indemnified by
another party for a cost incurred in connection with this document, that reimbursement or
indemnity excludes any GST component of that cost for which an Input Tax Credit may be
claimed by the party being reimbursed or indemnified, or by its Representative Member,
Joint Venture Operator or other similar person entitled to the Input Tax Credit (if any).
(g) Progressive or Periodic Supplies

Where a Supply made under or in connection with this document is a Progressive or
Periodic Supply, subclause (c) applies to each component of the Progressive or Periodic
Supply as if it were a separate Supply.

To the maximum extent permitted by law, and subject to the rest of this section ‘Liability’,
we are not liable for any loss or damage (including without limitation any Consequential
Loss), however caused (including by negligence), suffered in connection with Virtual Land
(including sales, purported sales, failed transactions, disputes, transactions not recorded on
our block chain or any forfeited Virtual Land).

Consequential Loss means: loss of revenues; loss of reputation; loss of profits;
consequential loss; loss of actual or anticipated savings; loss of bargain; indirect loss; lost
opportunities (including opportunities to enter into arrangements with third parties); and
loss or damage in connection with claims against you by third parties.
​If the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) or any other legislation states that there is
 a guarantee in respect of goods or services supplied, and our liability for breach of that
 guarantee may not be excluded but may be limited, our liability for such breach is limited to,
 in the case of a supply of goods, replacing the goods or supplying equivalent goods or
 repairing the goods, or in the case of supply of services, supplying the services again or
 paying the cost of having the services supplied again.

A user’s account may be immediately terminated or suspended:

1. If they transmit any information or engage in any conduct on the website that:

2. If they attempt to transfer, novate or sell their account or otherwise engage in any
action seeking to circumvent the normal operation of the website for any reason
whatsoever.

3. For a breach of any requirement or clause of these terms or the Digital Asset Terms, as
determined in Earth v2’s sole discretion; or

4.For convenience upon Earth v2 providing written notice.

If a User’s account is terminated without cause, Earth v2 may elect to acquire the User’s
digital assets as follows:

1. In the case of Credits, refunding the User the original purchase price of the Credits; and

2. In the case of Virtual Land, refunding the User the original Price of the Digital Asset.

If a User’s account is terminated for cause, the User agrees to pay Earth v2 liquidated
damages equal to the original Price of any Digital Assets then held by the User in their
Account. The User agrees that this clause is not a penalty and is reasonably necessary for
the protection of Earth v2’s commercial interests.

Your access to the Website or the services we supply may be terminated at any time by us
without notice to you.

If we terminate your account, we will have no further obligations or liabilities to you. If you
hold any digital assets at the time that your account is terminated, our Digital Asset Terms
will govern the treatment of those digital assets.




The Purchase of Virtual Goods in Earth 2 are instantaneous and final after payment is
complete. Earth 2 does not offer refunds for the purchase for Virtual Goods for customer
change of mind. Virtual Goods inside Earth 2 will only be refunded if there was a technical
issue from our payment gateway, check out system the Payment Account.

You also agree to be bound by the Digital Asset Terms that are annexed to these terms and
conditions and marked ‘A.’
​The rights and obligations of the parties under these terms do not merge on completion of
 any transaction contemplated by these terms. Termination of these terms will not affect any
 accrued rights or remedies of the parties (noting that rights to Virtual Land will be
 extinguished in accordance with these terms).

You must not (nor purport to) assign, in whole or in part, or novate your rights and
obligations under or in connection with these terms without our prior written consent.
Rights in Virtual Land can only be transferred in accordance with these terms.

We may subcontract our obligations under these terms, and assign or novate our rights or
obligations under these terms.

A clause or part of a clause of these terms that is illegal or unenforceable may be severed
from these terms and the remaining clauses or parts of the clause of these terms continue in
force.

These terms supersede all previous agreements about their subject matter. These terms
embody the entire agreement between the parties.

In these terms:



ANNEXURE A - Digital Asset Terms
In addition to Earth Version 2 Pty Ltd ACN 626 007 761 (‘Earth v2’, ‘we, us, our) Website
Terms and Conditions the purchase and sale of Digital Assets are subject to these terms.

The Digital Assets which Users may buy and sell on the Website known as “Virtual Land” are
notionally identified with reference to 10 meter by 10 meter areas of the earth, but carry no
rights to land of any kind, or any right of alienable ownership of any interest of any kind.
The Digital Assets are only of use within the Website.

If the User seeks to purchase or sell a digital asset, they may do so as follows:

A Trade will not execute if User has insufficient Credits and/or no linked Payment Account
with sufficient funds to acquire Credits to complete the Trade.

For each Trade, Earth v2 will update the User’s Account as required to reflect the purchase
or sale of a Digital Asset by adjusting the Credit balance and Digital Assets associated with
that User’s Account.

The User agrees to indemnify Earth v2 and Earth v2’s Personnel and keep Earth v2 and
Earth v2’s Personnel indemnified at all times to the fullest extent permitted by law in
respect of any Loss or Claim which Earth v2 or Earth v2’s Personnel may suffer, sustain or
incur arising from, or connected with, a breach of these Terms.

In addition, the User must indemnify Earth v2 and Earth v2’s personnel and keep Earth v2
and Earth v2’s Personnel indemnified at all times to the fullest extent permitted by law in
​respect of any Claim which Earth v2 or Earth v2’s personnel may suffer, sustain or incur
 arising from, or connected with, any breach of any applicable laws by a User, reduced to the
 extent the Loss in respect of the Claim was caused by the negligent act or omission Earth v2
 or Earth v2’s Personnel.


In the absence of a material breach of this agreement by Earth v2 or the gross negligence,
fraud or willful misconduct by Earth v2 when conducting Trades under this agreement,
Earth v2 will not be liable to the User on account of anything done, omitted or suffered by
Earth v2 in good faith when conducting the Trades pursuant to these terms.

Earth v2’s liability to any User will be capped at the maximum amount Earth v2 received
from that User in the 6 months prior to any claim being made.

All Prices are exclusive of GST, and should GST be applicable on any Trade or transaction, the
User purchasing the Digital Asset agrees to pay to Earth v2 the amount of any GST which is
found to be applicable and payable upon demand, including in respect of any
reimbursement of tax, costs, penalties or interest paid.

Any dispute arising under these Digital Asset Terms is subject to the same dispute
resolution obligations as our Website Terms.




Transcripts of Earth2 Videos:
Video Title: Deep Dive on Earth 2 Civilians, Game Mechanics & Lore

Premiered Nov 28, 2022




"Hi, there and welcome back to another deep dive video. My Name is Shane Isaac, and I'm
the CEO and founder of Earth 2. You'll have to forgive me for any sudden scratching as it
appears, although I was born in Australia and have spent the majority of my life living here,
I still forget how strong the sun can be and manage to get myself sunburnt when helping
someone out yesterday, so ouch. Even though the sun didn't feel too strong, the UV rays
were extremely strong, and I didn't realize it, but we're not here to talk about that.




So, we've done a deep dive video on raiding, how that will work, and how droids fit into the
picture, but the plot thickens when we look at civilians and how we plan to introduce them
and where they fit in. As well as mentioned previously, I have four game mechanics that I
plan to initially introduce, which are raiding, droids, civilians, and player-to-player
contracts. And these deep dive videos that we're doing will provide you with some insight
into how they will all work together.
​And although these four-game mechanics will work together and complement one another
 as a standalone group, so they can operate as a standalone group together, raiding and
 managing your droids to hack, detect, and collect unstable ether from other players'
 properties is only the initial purpose of these game mechanics. Each one will have further
 use and utility inside of Earth 2 through the long term.




In some of the numerous different core frameworks that we plan to implement on our
platform. Let me give you a few examples. So raiding, for example, is using what could be
considered as a light version of our movement and logistic game mechanics. So, we're
introducing the future of those mechanics via the raiding game mechanic to test it for bigger
long-term goals such as resource transportation for trading and moving other objects
around inside of E2V1. These systems will become key parts for the future of our EcoSim as
we move toward resource generation, replication, building, and so forth.




Another example is droids, which are being introduced with the initial ability to raid other
properties, but their utility will expand significantly over time as well. Raiding is only the
first thing they will be used for. There will be even more utility for them directly inside the
raiding mechanics, such as intercepting and some other users we're keeping secret right
now. But long-term, they might be useful for other things like building, defending, attacking,
escorting, searching, scanning, and a number of other things a player might like to have
certain types of Droids on hand when traversing E2V1. The list goes on, but I think you get
what I mean.




Then we have the civilian game mechanics, which we will learn more about today. So, I
won't share specific details right now, but the civilian game mechanics will also have long-
term utility, which starts as part of the raiding concept, and they will move into the EcoSim
and beyond as well.




And finally, we have player-to-player contract game mechanics, which even in the initial
version are quite complicated, having a perfect introduction via raiding. However, this is
only the beginning as they will be expanded over time as well to allow for external control
over multiple parts of the EcoSim on a whole lot of different levels. So, you might want a
player to control one property or a group of three properties or ten properties or all your
properties. You might want them to build, trade, spend, or do many other things directly for
your properties or on your properties or with your assets or with your account. So, player-
to-player contracts for raiding will allow us to introduce all of that.
​And I'll make another video later talking about it because it is quite in-depth, and it will
 cover a lot of things. As I said, even for the raiding aspect of player-to-player contracts.
 Anyway, I just wanted to point out these four-game mechanics we're working to design and
 implement now. They are not the end of the line; they are, in fact, the beginning of the line.
And each one leads into future purpose and utility inside of Earth 2.




Now, although the historic timeline of Earth 2 is in the here and now, meaning today on
Earth one is also the same day, month, and year inside of Earth two. So it's not set in like the
future or the past per se. And although we have many different plans for Earth 2 as a
platform, for example, to act as an intermediary between web 2 and web 3, between 2D and
3D, between what we know today and what will become tomorrow, to support things like e-
commerce and social media portals to other gaming experiences, and even potentially other
metaverse platforms.




So, when all of that is on the table and while that is all exciting enough, I personally don't see
any reason why we can't build on top of it and have a storyline in the background to make
the builds of Earth 2 real and create like a connection between the digital assets inside of
Earth 2 and make the gameplay element of Earth 2 that much more interesting and
immersive.




Therefore, instead of simply saying, 'Here, you can now build civilians,' we want to tell a
storyline that will evolve over time. So, before I jump into the UI/UX walkthrough for
civilians, like I did with the droids, background, the story, and the lore of the Ethereal droids
and the matter Sprites, let me share the story with you so far and how civilians made their
way into Earth 2.




Quick point, our concept art team desperately wanted to create visuals for this background
story, but unfortunately, they had other higher priorities. And I'd prefer them to be focusing
on a backlog of requirements directly related to the end product of phase 2.5 and the end
product of the raiding and civilians, and what have you. All of that stuff opposed to spending
time on visuals that would be used solely for marketing and promotional purposes.

"So maybe they will create something later on for this story, but for now, you just have to
listen to me explain. But let's have a look at the background story for civilians on Earth 2. To
give you guys an idea, I guess we could share some of the images of civilians while we're
going through part of this to give you guys a bit of a sneak peek at some of the characters
our game design team and our concept art team came up with.
​So, civilians, let's begin the background story. When the Pioneers, also known as the first
 landowners from Earth 1, started to operate the first mentars, strange signals were caught
 during internet tethering communication between other mentars. At first, it seemed to be
 some kind of frequency interference or fault in the tethering process, but many doubted the
 possibility of the seemingly perfect mentars being faulty in this way. After all, they were the
 only piece of pre-existing technology Pioneers had been able to discover on Earth 2 so far,
 and many thought of them as a direct gift of perfection from the creators themselves.




These strange signals became amplified when detecting and collecting ether. Upon further
investigation of the signal, findings showed that what was first thought to be a rogue radio
signal turned out to be a different kind of electromagnetic microwave operating on a
narrow beam but modified somehow and unlike anything that they had ever seen before. It
seems that the Mentars already had this built-in ability to intercept these transmissions,
which appeared to be originating from an unknown place within the metaverse.




The content of the signals intercepted by the mentars revealed some insights into their
possible origins. When Pioneers discovered the mentar's output data from the transmission
resembled strands of DNA, though there were some similarities with the DNA of the
Pioneers, there were also other clear abnormalities. Following this discovery, the Pioneers
soon identified several different variations of the DNA strands, each being clearly
distinguishable from one another. All evidence suggested there was a clear connection
between the signal and ether, especially where high concentrated amounts of ether existed.
The Pioneers began conducting various experiments attempting to combine the DNA
strands with captured ether. The unforeseeable reaction was instantaneous. Virtual life
forms, such as trees and plants, seemed to rejuvenate when in the direct proximity of the
experimentation area. The Pioneers interpreted this as a promising sign for the new types
of photosynthesis of vegetation inside this new virtual world. But one Pioneer remained
unconvinced that this was the only use of the new discovery and began to conduct a range
of unconventional experiments, including one which redirected the transmission data
directly into the core processor of a hollow projector technology. This Pioneer claimed to
have never used as they believed Hollow projections were useless.




When the Pioneer looked at the visual that began forming during their experiment, further
panic arose when an otherworldly life form appeared in the hollow projection itself. The
appearance of the life form was unfamiliar, and although it seemed passive and harmless,
​the vision of this foreign being drove the Pioneer away to the verge of insanity, claiming
 alien races were hidden in the signal and were coming to sabotage and steal the land that he
 rightfully owned.




When others refused to listen, this Pioneer, the first of those who became the unnamed, sold
his land to the other pioneers and forever cursed Earth 2 and its existence. Although he had
greatly profited in the sales of his land, one Pioneer's loss is another Pioneer's gain, and
others vowed to be patient and humble and continued forth. This discovery led the Pioneers
to the beginning of synthesizing life forms inside of Earth 2. Some speculated that these
advanced electromagnetic microwaves were coming from other worlds inside the metaverse
that had learned about the creation of Earth 2 and were attempting to inhabit it.




It appeared as though they lacked the technology or power to travel directly to Earth 2 in
their physical form. Irrespective of what some thought, the Pioneers had arrived first and
had begun their conquest for dominance over this new virtual planet, and as humans tend
to do, they started looking for ways to exploit the DNA strands from the mysterious
transmissions with the hope of creating an efficient labor force for their properties. As the
vision seen by the first of the unnamed was indeed an otherworldly life form.




Through much trial and error, the Pioneers learned that there was much they did not yet
know about the mentar and how it operated. The mentar had clearly detected this
transmission and therefore may hold the key on what should be done with the data. This
avenue led them to discover a new chamber within the mentar, which provided some kind
of synthesizing technology and that could relay the intercepted microwave transmission
into this chamber while infusing it with just the right amount of ether from the storage
banks. The result was both incredible and alarming. Within this new synthesizing chamber,
something started to grow, first as an embryo and then larger. It was, in fact, becoming a life
form.




Over time, it grew to form into a full being, some similar in appearance to humans and
others very different. There was an instant bond with the mentar, and the first words from
the civilian were duly noted as 'Rise, my witness, I entered this realm to serve.' So the age of
civilians had begun, though their first words suggested otherwise. Synthesized civilians
seem to show no recollection of their origins or their purpose on Earth 2, but some Pioneers
felt civilians should be monitored closely as they believe Earth 2 could be a target of these
otherworldly factions due to its abundance of life, power, and resources.
​Ether and essence have the ability to, amongst other things, sustain life and power, and
 although there is inconclusive evidence to say for sure why the DNA of the factions is being
 transmitted, to many, the purpose is to be closer to the magic ether and essence provides to
 the metaverse, along with the jewels that amplify them, as the control of ether and essence
 brings ultimate power.




All reports suggest that civilians within Earth 2 are loyal to players and Pioneers and play a
key role in the management or improvement of a vast array of functionalities. They are
capable of working at different places and performing different tasks, and together, they can
achieve goals that may require one or many of the same skill sets. Civilians and dwellers
seem to be members of varying factions from across the metaverse. These factions have
their own specific appearances, cultures, and beliefs, which may prevent them from getting
along with one another. But for now, it seems that they are oblivious to what these are, and
the absence of any specific memories tends to allow them to perfectly coexist together with
one another.




It has been established that civilians are quite intelligent beings, having the capacity to learn
new skills and obtain higher knowledge. They are suitable to be put to work in a variety of
ways and occupations. However, their intelligence may pose a risk, which is yet unknown. If
they can learn, can they also forget? Or might they use their newfound knowledge and skills
to pursue ulterior motives? Or perhaps this is only a human trait, and civilians, when treated
well, will forever remain loyal. They do, however, exhibit signs of needs, behaviors, and even
preferences to different types of tasks and vocations.




Though much is still unknown about them, civilians are of great assistance to a Pioneer,
providing help to run their properties, control their fleets, report information, unlock
abilities, and much more that will be discovered in the future. In the foreseeable future, it
seems much better to be walking with your own civilians than without. I hope that provides
you all with an interesting introduction to civilians. I'm sure more of their stories and
backgrounds will be slowly discovered over time inside of Earth 2.




Now that you understand all there is to know about civilians up until this point in time, let's
look at how they can be synthesized and utilized and how their introduction fits into the
raiding mechanics. So let's jump into the UI/UX walkthrough and look at how it's going to
operate in its initial first iteration.
​Civilians give players the opportunity to automate some of the tasks that come with land
 ownership. Whether you have a small or large account, you'll be able to appreciate what a
 civilian can do for you. Since civilians have the ability to unlock new functionalities, a
 civilian management page is used to keep all the new interactions in one spot. The civilian
 management page is similar to that of the Droid management page. Players are given the
 option to alternate between viewing civilians individually as a list or grouped together by
 the property the civilian belongs to. As you can see on this screen, we don't have any
 civilians because we also don't have any properties. So let's switch to a view that has some
 properties.




In the property list, each card will display the property's name, the property's location, the
operator for the property (but that's coming later with player-to-player contracts), the
population (the number of civilians and the number of Droids that are on the property, like
when Droids are being built or relocated). If there are civilians currently being synthesized
on a property, a progress bar and the number of synthesizing civilians will be displayed
beneath the current population number. When a property is selected, a list of civilians living
on the property will be displayed. In this sample interface, this particular property has a
population of zero, so no civilians are listed. When this happens, the player can choose to
synthesize civilians.




At the moment, players can synthesize a maximum of five civilians for any property that has
four or more tiles, with each civilian having their own unique occupation. Though bear in
mind these numbers may change. Each occupation will unlock a certain raid-related
functionality or perk. Although, keep in mind that in the future, the capabilities of a civilian
will extend far beyond just raids, as more features are released over time. For now,
occupations will be assigned to a civilian based on the order in which they are synthesized.
As we can see in this example interface, players can select the number of civilians they wish
to synthesize. The mentar requires ether to execute such a process and will only be able to
synthesize one civilian at a time. Once the desired number of civilians has been chosen, the
player can then select this button to begin synthesizing their civilians. As you can see in this
UI mock-up, the cost is suggesting five ether per civilian. However, as mentioned in previous
videos, the designs that we're showing do not always have the precise figure that will
eventually be used. Once the mock-up designs are completed, game designs continue to do
many calculations and balancing. So, at the moment, I can let you know that the cost per
civilian is going to be closer to around 20 ether each.




Once the player taps the button to synthesize their civilians, the player will be met with a
confirmation page, allowing them to either initiate or cancel the synthesis of their civilians.
If the player confirms the cost and time to synthesize the specified number of civilians, the
​mentar will begin using intercepted electromagnetic wave transmissions to feed into the
 synthesizing chamber with the correct amount of ether and then begin synthesizing its first
 civilian. The current civilian being synthesized will have a progress bar indicating how
 much longer the process will take. If we take a look at the civilian checklist, we can also see
 that the civilian being synthesized will be checked off with a gray tick. When a civilian on
 the list is marked as pending, this means that it has already been queued but the process
 has not yet begun. Once that specific civilian has been fully synthesized, the tick will become
 aqua, and the synthesized civilian and their abilities will be immediately accessible.




Now that we've synthesized our civilians, let's take a look at how we can manage them.
Players will first have to select a civilian from their list of synthesized civilians. Each civilian
card will display the civilian's profile, which includes the gender, the name, the occupation,
the rarity, the faction, and the ability. Once a civilian is selected, the player will be able to
alternate between viewing the general info and accessing their ability menu. In the civilian's
general info, the player will be presented with a full-body image of the civilian and the
civilian specifications, including a brief description of their job title and their location. In the
civilian's ability menu, players can view and manage their civilians' occupational abilities.
Just a note that the screen we're showing here is just a placeholder graphic that we created.
The actual image will contain the specific civilian that you have in this job on this property
at that time.




Let's take a look at our first synthesized civilian, the data analyst. A data analyst is
responsible for unlocking and providing insights, a feature that we have explored in a
previous video. Insights are very handy when it comes to strategic raiding as it reveals
detailed raid statistics of your properties and Droids and can help you make decisions on
what properties to raid and which Droids to send. As you can see here, because we have a
civilian, a data analyst on this given property, we now have the ability to unlock insights for
the property itself and the Droids. Our second civilian is the Droid technician, who, knowing
all there is to know about Droids, will be able to charge the player's Droids when they are
idle. This means the Droids tethered to that property will no longer need to be manually
charged by the player; instead, you can think of them as being on auto-charge. The time
until a Droid is fully charged will also be displayed above the Droid's power stats.




Our next civilian is the Ether dispenser, who can automatically dispense the Ether of Droids
tethered to that property. The player has full control of the auto-dispensing system and can
instruct the Ether dispenser to dispense the Droid's Ether storage if it contains any amount
of ether or to only dispense if the Droid's Ether storage is completely full. If a player does
not wish for the Droid to automatically dispense Ether, the player may simply set the auto
​control to off. Our fourth civilian is the Raid Commander. This civilian will allow the player
 to set auto raids to a specific property via the raid menu.




To elaborate on what Auto raiding is: Auto raiding enables players to assign a Droid on their
property to repeatedly raid a selected property indefinitely. This is a handy feature that
allows players to actively raid on a daily basis without the need to manually do so.
Consistently raiding a property multiple times could also prove to be a valuable source of
insight regarding certain raid patterns.




Finally, the fifth civilian a player can synthesize on their property is the Droid pilot. This
civilian will be able to directly control and fly Droids that you own for very specific
missions. These missions will be added in the future, but the player still may opt to build
this civilian in advance, so they have one for when the pilot civilian's abilities are released.
So, to start with, there will be three different factions: the space force faction, the rebel
Force faction, and the faction of the ancient Egyptian gods. The order the civilians are
synthesized in will initially remain the same for each property, such as the data analyst may
always be first, followed by the Droid technician, the Ether dispenser, the Raid Commander,
and the Droid pilot.




There will be different levels of Rarities to receive civilian specialists from each faction type.
For example, an Ether dispenser from the space force faction might be common, when it is
rarer to synthesize an Ether dispenser from the rebel Force faction or the ancient Egyptian
god faction.




We have already designed and continued to design more factions that are currently kept
secret but will be released over time. For now, let's do a quick recap on what each specialist
civilian can do and what that civilian currently looks like for each one of the initial three
factions.




When the data analyst is synthesized, the mentar provides them with an ability to control
various aspects of the mentar, specifically to open insights and statistics. The civilian will
explore, interpret, and present the player with the ever-changing property and Droid raid
statistics, insights of certain raid-related findings, and trends for any Mentar it is dwelling
in. It is likely in the future that data analysts will be able to model and visualize data sets in
​areas outside of raiding as well. Having a data analyst will provide essential planning and
 determining raid strategies and decisions. Without this civilian, the player will have no
 vision across such important data, which will be a massive loss in strategy.




The Droid technician constantly charges the player's idle Droids. They know about the
technical inner workings of the Droid and how Essence can keep it charged without an
external power cell. At this point in time, it is thought that when a Droid technician is
synthesized, the mentar provides them with this additional knowledge about ethereal
Droids and their power requirements. Without a Droid technician, the player will find
themselves extra busy, having to manually identify and command their Droids to be
recharged when the power cell level is under 100 percent.




The Ether dispenser knows a great deal about Ether. It is thought that when they are being
synthesized, the mentar gives them additional knowledge, so they know how to handle the
life power force of Ether in all these different situations. The civilian will automatically
dispense the raided Ether carried by each Droid. So, when a Droid returns to your property
after a successful raid, your Ether dispenser will immediately evaluate and be on hand to
ensure that Ether is deposited into your Ether Storage Bank. Without an Ether dispenser, I
guess the player would have to locate Droids which are storing Ether successfully from
raids and then dispense the Ether themselves, which obviously would be quite time-
consuming.




The Raid Commander allows players to set the Droids to Auto raid a certain property. When
the Raid Commander is being synthesized, the mentar provides the civilian with the ability
to pre-program Droids which are Tethered to the mentar. The Raid Commander is residing
at the time. Droids set to Auto raid will continue to raid the target property for an indefinite
period of time whenever they are available to do so, whenever they have charge. Without a
Raid Commander, the player will need to deploy their Droids to retarget a property
manually.




Little is known about the Droid pilot just yet, but it seems the mentar provides them with
some kind of key to operate a single Droid from the comfort of a flight simulator station,
which is located inside the mentar. It may be that when more is learned, the Droid pilot will
be able to control a single Droid at one time for a special mission to do things a Droid would
not normally be programmed to do.
​In the not-so-distant future, not only do we expect new types of factions to start sending
 their signals to Earth in a hope to have their DNA fused with Ether in a synthesis chamber,
 but it seems the mentar also receives new types of DNA data for existing factions as well.
 For example, recently, two new kinds of signals have been intercepted but are not yet
 synthesizable. These two are the Dual specialist, which seems to have some kind of special
 knowledge and abilities for crafting Jewels, possibly in more effective ways that may even
 require lessons, and the Ranger, which can live directly off virtual land on a property inside
 of Earth 2, ranging over that property to discover things that periodically spawn on that
 property.




So, there are a couple of teasers for now. Well, I hope you liked the introduction of the
civilians for Earth 2. The implementation for civilians will come after the raiding Android's
mechanics are deployed online. There is still some remaining QA before we deploy raiding
even to stage two. As mentioned, there was some feature creep, and you can see how
detailed the first iteration will be based on the deep dive video that we did the other week,
talking about the raiding mechanics, the raiding Android mechanics. But I am pushing hard
and hoping we can get it onto stage two soon and get some initial feedback from the
amazing people in the Earth 2 Community who often help us check features on stage two
before they go out live.




I may release the video about player-to-player contracts at a later date. It is very detailed
and quite complex, so I'll probably release that video a few weeks before player-to-player
contracts go live, so it's fresher in everybody's mind. The contract system will introduce the
first type of free-to-play inside of Earth 2 and will allow free-to-play players to control
almost all of the raiding features inside one or more of another player's properties.




Finally, this is something I may tweet about, but if you have a webcam, we'd love to capture
your reaction to the different parts of the upcoming E2V1 progress video we're going to
drop over the next few days. I'd originally been holding this footage in order to release it
when the Essence token officially launched, as I do believe it would have had quite an
impressive impact to many looking to purchase the token. But considering that now maybe
some months away, I have officially decided to release a big part, not all, but a big part of the
footage earlier during the second anniversary birthday month to give those patient
supporters in the Earth 2 Community a glimpse of the progress and a vision of what we have
been building and what is to come.




So, if you have a webcam, please consider recording yourself when you watch the video and
send it to us so we can share in the reactions
​ to various parts of the footage in the video we're going to drop. I hope you guys enjoyed
 that video about the progress of E2V1 coming soon, and I hope you guys enjoyed this video
 about civilians. And until next time, take care, keep safe, and goodbye.”




Transcription 2: Dev Vlog
Premiered Mar 17, 2022

“Dear Earth 2 players and community,




Welcome to the first installment of our developer blog, where we'll be providing periodic
updates and insight into key technical developments that segments of our engineering team
have been focusing on and prototyping. These vlogs will confine themselves to progress on
developments we're comfortable with making public. For confidentiality reasons, they may
not accurately reflect what our team is actively working on at the point in time the vlog is
published.
While some of these topics may reflect work in progress and open research, we'd still like to
share our approach and, where feasible, explain our progress and how we've chosen to
address and implement many of the broader rendering, persistence, and technical
challenges that will ultimately enable various aspects of Earth-2's metaverse to become a
reality.




One of the most exciting development areas for Earth 2 is our advanced terrain rendering
engine, which is relevant for our longer-term phase 3 implementation plans and is a major
focus of our 3D open-world developmental roadmap. It will not only support real-time,
photorealistic terrain and environment rendering on a large scale but also accurately reflect
our real world's topology and locations.




In order to achieve this, we've developed a high-performance proprietary rendering
pipeline that integrates both height map data with clip mapping and is something we've
been looking to enhance with the use of satellite imagery data. However, our R&D team
soon discovered a number of reasons why the direct utilization of a real-world satellite
imagery dataset would not be practical or substantial enough for application within the
Earth 2 metaverse.
​Some of the reasons for this include the inconsistency with image quality and resolution, the
 presence of shadows, inconsistency in lighting and perspective, and the presence of man-
 made structures in the imagery. We want Earth 2 to begin as a pristine and untouched
 virtual version of our Earth.




The sheer size of the data means that even if we did manage to resolve all these issues
across the entire dataset, working out ways to stream the many terabytes of information
would likely create streaming artifacts and inevitably consume bandwidth and slow tile
loading. Therefore, while researching ways to work around these issues and striving to
retain the beauty and variety that satellite imagery provides to virtual terrains, we came up
with this solution.




What you see in this video is a prototype solution in which we are synthesizing satellite data
on the fly without any form of direct reliance on costly oversized imagery data. This
becomes evident while using our newly researched and developed parametric and
procedural approach. As you can see, we can change the look of the terrain in real-time at
scale as we please while relying on heightmap data for the visuals.




We are, in fact, able to derive a lot of useful information from the height data alone, such as
surface detail, steepness, and curvature. To simulate the look of different geographical
areas, we use something called biome indexing. Biomes are a way to classify large areas
based on climate patterns, temperature, soil types, vegetation, and wildlife. Essentially, this
allows us to have different visual parameters displayed in real-time at different locations.




Some of our existing biome parameters consist of forest color coverage and height range,
ground foliage, grass, and shrubs coverage, color, and height range, and snow height and
coverage based on curvature, among many more.




Our artists are working on optimization of the parameters for each biome and
programmatically comparing the results with reference satellite imagery data. In this video,
we also chose to animate a terrain height offset with static height-based parameters like sea
level and snow height ranges to display just how versatile our solution is.
Layered on top is an early version of our atmospheric rendering solution, which we'll
describe in more detail during a subsequent vlog entry. It's worth mentioning that the
​shader used to produce this graphical effect is only responsible for visualizing Earth from
 long-range distances. For short-range viewing, we'll be blending our newly developed
 technology with a close-up detailed rendering system, in fact, an upgraded version to the
 one we've showcased in the past.




Please keep in mind that what you see here is a work in progress being developed as a
proof-of-concept prototype by Earth 2. While it already looks fantastic, we're only
showcasing an area of roughly 600,000 square kilometers. The progress and results so far
are very promising, and our dev team is heavily focused on delivering a version that's fully
operational on a global scale soon, which will be a significant step toward releasing new
opportunities for interaction and gameplay on Earth 2..”




November 27, 2023 – Sydney, Australia – A little over a week ago Earth 2 deployed its 6th
major feature release of 2023! This release was not an isolated feature alone but is
comprised of 3 separate systems: the Boosted E-ther land mechanic system, the first
version of the Governance system and the release of the final tier of land inside Earth 2 –
Tier 3 – which comes with its own entirely new land mechanics system. Each of these 3
are standalone and unique features in their own right, but due to the fact all 3 systems
have various levels of interconnectedness with one another, we decided to launch them as
a package.

Continue reading to learn more about all 3 of these new systems, including what each
system is, how they work and what part they play in the big picture for Earth 2!

Stealth Release Details
Released as a stealth launch without any official announcement, the Earth 2 Community
was quick to discover the new Boosted E-ther, Governance and Tier 3 land systems and
run them through their paces! Earth 2 Players have already submitted over 600 Territories
worldwide, and over 70 million votes were placed by the time the first and second
Territories were voted in by the Players, using what we consider a ‘pilot’ version of our
Governance system!

Making up part of those 70 million votes, a staggering 23 million plus Essence was locked
up in this voting process, representing more than 14% of the entire circulating supply of
Essence at the time. The phenomenal turnout demonstrated the preparedness of Earth 2
Players to not only use and lock up their Essence for something they want, but is also
another undeniably strong sign of utility for the token bound commodity.




In the final moments leading up to the selection and locking of the first two most voted on
Territories, we witnessed first-hand just what our active community was capable of. With
a strong last-minute rally of over 13 million Essence votes being locked towards ensuring
that Parnu, Estonia would go down in history as the very first winner of the Player-voted
Territories and first to ever be released!
​BOOSTED E-THER
 Boosted E-ther is first and foremost a massive bonus for all T1 and T2 land holders that is

not only visible day-to-day but has the potential to accrue substantially in the size of
available E-ther over the course of weeks, months and possibly years. The boost
mechanics are applied to all T1 and T2 tiles and these mechanics have been designed in
such a way that places full control of the potential benefits into the hands of any Players
that own T1 or T2 land.

Every country will have its own unique pool of Boosted E-ther. The amount of Boosted
E-ther is determined on a number of factors, including the demand for or popularity of
land inside a country based on the New Land Price (NLP), and how many T1 or T2 tiles
exist in that country.

The Boosted E-ther mechanics for T1 and T2 tiles function independently from T3 land,
that is to say they function without the need of any released T3 Territory in that country.
However, there are parts of the boost mechanics which do connect back with T3 land tiles
once they have been voted and released inside a country. Once the first T3 tiles are
purchased inside a Territory, inside a country, any ‘neglected’ E-ther from the country’s
Boosted E-ther pool is distributed among the existing T3 tiles following a few rules.

This mechanism does not take anything away from T1 or T2 landowners, but rather
provides an opportunity for T3 land within the same country to lure any excess neglected
E-ther from the Boosted E-ther pool before it disperses back into Earth 2 (see The Boosted
E-ther Pool + The T3 SEED section of article).




What is Boosted E-ther and How Does It Work?
It is important to note that Boosted E-ther is only an added benefit to the standard base
E-ther a Player would have otherwise claimed for their T1 and T2 tile properties. If a
Player misses the opportunity to Boost their T1 and T2 tile properties they are not losing
anything, but rather missing out on a bonus boost, so those Players who do not claim in
consecutive days are not losing anything, they are just missing an opportunity to get more.

The Boosted E-ther system introduces a significant new update to the Earth 2 land
mechanics system and presents an opportunity of benefit to all Players who own T1 or T2
land. It is a HUGE reward for T1 and T2 land holders benefiting those who are active on
the Earth 2 platform. As mentioned above, Boosted E-ther is an additional amount of
E-ther on top of a Player’s standard E-ther detected from their T1 and T2 properties. It can
be obtained simply by claiming E-ther within a 24 hour period every day, through the
Claim E-ther button.

Every day that a Player claims E-ther from their T1 and T2 properties, their Mentars
slowly become Supercharged which is represented on the Boosted E-ther bar, and
continues to supercharge over the course of 30 days, increasing the amount of Boosted
E-ther each day.
​After 30 consecutive days of claiming E-ther, the boost will have reached its maximum
 Supercharged boost capacity. For the time being, Players will be able to Boost for the full
 30 days and maintain that fully Supercharged Boost. However, in the future there may be
 limitations on how long the fully Supercharged Boost can be maintained and importantly,
 there may be ulterior PvP or other game mechanics that could also cause a Player’s
 Supercharged Boost bar to reset.




Boosted E-ther, including its connection with T3 land, form an important part of the
Essence tokenomics system and we anticipate it to be around for quite some time.
However, this Boosted E-thersystem, as well as other boost systems that affect the amount
of E-ther generation such as Jewel boosts and other boosts, will immediately fall off and
cease to function the moment any disinflationary mechanics from the Essence tokenomics
system is activated, something we at the very least do not expect to occur for a number of
months. It is worth noting that the tokenomics is designed in a way that these systems
could also be reactivated depending on certain criteria, but more will be confirmed in the
White Paper.

Boosted E-ther Pool + T3 SEED
The Boosted E-ther system is yet another tangible benefit for T1 and T2 land holders, in
this case with focus on land with a higher New Land Prices (NLPs). Earth 2 refers to this
type of phenomena as the power of “belief”, where benefits will sometimes form inside of
Earth 2 as a result of something being more popular or desirable or having greater power
or worth, this is something that will be covered in more detail in “What is the Power of
Essence?”.

Therefore, the higher NLP a T1 or T2 tile has, the higher Potential Boosted E-ther (PBE) it
can attract. T1 tiles have always attracted more Base E-ther Spawn (BES) than T2 tiles.
Therefore, while both use the same NLP method to determine the potential E-ther Boost
Percentile (EBP), if a T1 and T2 tile have the same NLP, the T1 will ultimately gain more
E-ther Boost due to the fact its BES is higher than the T2’s BES.

(EBP*BES=PBE)

The bottom line is that almost all T1 and T2 land will have the potential to receive some
form of E-ther Boost, but some potentially more than others depending on three driving
factors: T1 or. T2 land, the NLP of the land, and how Supercharged the Mentars are.

Every 24 hours, Earth 2 processes millions of data points to determine the maximum
potential E-ther boost per country based on the NLP, number of tiles and T1/T2 tier split
of each country. This creates what is known as the Boosted E-ther Pool, a pool which is
unique to each country. T1 and T2 land holders have first access to attracting Boosted
E-ther from these pools. The amount of Boosted E-ther a Player attracts depends on how
many T1 or T2 tiles they own in each country.

Unlike T1 and T2 tiles, T3 tiles do not have the maturity to support Mentars (explained
further in the T3 section below). However, T3 tiles do generate, after witnessing that a
Player desires them enough to become their first owner, what is known as a SEED, a
​simple yet undeveloped Mentar form.

Although the SEED does not have the power and capability of a fully developed Mentar, it
is still very useful. While it cannot attract base E-ther on its own, one of its special abilities
is luring neglected E-ther from the Boosted E-ther pools, that the T1 and T2 properties
have failed to attract.

This neglected E-ther is made up of the remaining E-ther from a country’s Boosted E-ther
pool after the Supercharged Mentars on T1 and T2 properties have attracted as much
Boosted E-ther as they are entitled to. The T3 SEED is, in fact, so good at luring this
neglected E-ther that, depending on how much neglected E-ther is remaining in the pool
tile for tile, under the right conditions the lure of the SEED can outperform even the base
spawn rate of E-ther on a T1 tile.

However, even T3 SEEDs have their limits and although they can potentially attract more
base E-ther than a T1 tile when there is abundant E-ther in the neglected pool, they still
have a ceiling meaning that if the neglected E-ther cannot cover the ceiling limit for each
T3 tile, then the T3 tiles will in fact compete with one another to attract whatever
neglected E-ther is remaining in the country pool which often results in it being evening
distributed across all T3 tiles of all Territories in that country.

The result is a battle between T1 / T2 tiles and T3 tiles for the Boosted E-ther pool where
the T3 tiles benefit when there are less active Supercharged Mentars in a country,
resulting in larger neglected pools of E-ther. Claiming E-ther lured by the SEED of T3 land
is, for now, conveniently combined with the main E-ther claim button. If all the T1 / T2
land in an entire country somehow manages to achieve a maximum, 30 day fully
Supercharged Mentar on every property then in these extreme circumstances T3 land
would have no neglected E-ther to attract.

It is worth noting, that in cases where there is not enough neglected E-ther for T3 tiles to
evenly lure, this E-ther does not go to waste but rather accumulates until at least the
minimum amount of 0.01 E-ther can be lured by the T3 SEEDs from the Boosted E-ther
pool in that country.

TERRITORIES AND TIER 3 LAND
What Are Territories?
Territories are predetermined areas of land where borders have already been set in Earth
1, such as States, Provinces or Counties. They are, for the most part, dependent on or form
part of a Country. The introduction of Territories is unlike anything seen in Earth 2 to date
in that each Territory release is exclusively determined by the votes submitted by active
Earth 2 Players.

When a Territory is voted to be released by the Players, it eventually gets locked into a
release queue of Territories (see Territories Release section of article). Only after this
process, once a queued Territory is released, does the option for purchasing T3 land
appear within that specific Territory .

In the future, Territories may have the ability to operate independently from their country,
​and governing options like this and many others will ultimately be determined by Players
 voting through the Governance system (see GOVERNANCE section of article).

What is T3 Land?

Tier 3 land was first officially referenced as a potential base tile in our 2022 birthday
announcement where we confirmed that while there were plans to release Tier 3 land at
some point in the future, then was not the time and that if we did, it would be for a specific
purpose.

That specific purpose is finally revealed as the final foundational component of the land
mechanic system that will be documented as part of the Essence tokenomics in the White
Paper. It is a critical release that was therefore required in the lead up to the token launch.
Tier 3 Land is the final Tier of land, there will not be a Tier 4. It is the base builder Tier
land and although limited in some respects is also quite speculator given its unique ability
to lure neglected E-ther from the Boosted E-ther Pools, effectively giving T3 land holders
an opportunity to accumulate E-ther and Essence despite T3 tiles being unable to attract
E-ther directly from Earth 2 (see Boosted E-ther Pool + T3 SEED section of article).

The timing of Tier 3 land release intentionally coincides with the release of our “pilot”
version of the first Earth 2 Governance system, not only providing us with a chance to test
this new system but also introduce more utility for Essence linked directly with the final
major component of Land mechanics.

Furthermore, with more upcoming major feature releases in the near future, it was critical
to ensure this base tile involving new mechanics was live, tested, and fully functioning well
before it might be needed by new Players looking to either build inside of Earth 2, or just
make a start without mining Resources.

Tethering of Cydroids and Raiding from T3 properties is possible, although T3 raiding
capabilities are different to that of T1 and T2 properties.

Unlike T1 and T2 tiles, T3 tiles require a particular rarity of First Edition Cydroid to Raid
other properties. Below is a useful table outlining the size of the property that can be
raided based on the tethered Cydroid’s rarity:

This means that, for example, a Common Cydroid tethered to a T3 property can only target
and Raid properties with 25 tiles or less, whereas an Epic Cydroid can Raid properties up
to and including 250 tiles large.

As the T3 SEED (see The Boosted E-ther Pool + The T3 SEED section of article) is
incapable of supporting the building of Cydroids directly, Cydroids tethered on T3 can only
be obtained via P2P trading via the Bazaar or via relocation. In this way, Players may
purchase or relocate the exact Cydroid and rarity they require based on their property size
restrictions and raiding needs.

Obtaining T3 Tiles
​Only once a Territory has been locked in via votes on the Governance system and is
 subsequently released can T3 tiles within that territory become available for anyone to
 purchase.




The desired tiles can be selected directly from the Grid and if the Territory has been
released, the “Buy T3” button will appear as available to make the purchase possible.




T3 Land will also be upgradeable to T2 Land once the Land Upgrade mechanics are
released. Players will be able to use Essence to upgrade their Land which contributes to
Player-2-Earn mechanics within Earth 2.

The core ideology behind T3 Land is to provide Players with the option of a “base” level
tile that includes a level of speculation as to their potential. T3 Land can be used for some
things, but its purpose is predominantly to enable a Player to interact with the EcoSim
from a building perspective.

The way the system has been designed ensures that affordable base level tiles will be
available well into the future as Territories will take years to release. Furthermore, each
Territory is independently priced insulating them from major price movements on a
Country level.

EARTH 2 GOVERNANCE SYSTEM
The final feature of this major 3-part release, and possibly the most exciting, is the “pilot”
version of the Earth 2 Governance system. This system has been designed to place some
power into the Players hands initially with the ability to vote and determine the release of
Territories, and later expanding to include other matters or issues over time. Such matters
may include, but are not limited to, choosing a leader or group of leaders for a Territory,
deciding on a set of rules or boundaries within their Territory, setting up trade
arrangements, declaring independence, and a number of other interesting possibilities
that will emerge.
Additionally, the Governance system brings new utility for Essence, adding to a growing
list of uses for Essence inside Earth 2 that will only continue to expand over time. The
Governance system will continue to evolve but for now, we invite Players to vote with their
Essence and/or Tiles to familiarise themselves with how the system works. Please
remember, if you vote with Essence it will be locked up in the vote until that Territory is
released!

Submitting a Territory for Voting
Territories become available for voting when they are first submitted by a Player by
pledging Essence or tiles they own. The tiles must come from the same country as the
territory they are submitting if they choose to submit the Territory with a tile vote.

When a Player submits a territory, they will pledge Essence and/or Land which counts as
the first vote towards the territory’s release. It is extremely important to note that the
Essence or Tiles pledged to the territory will remain locked until the territory is released.
​How To Vote for a Territory Release
 Once a territory is successfully submitted, other Players will be able to see the newly
 submitted territory and decide whether they wish to vote for its release. When voting on a
 Territory, Players have the additional option to vote on the exact time of day they want the
 release to take place, allowing them to choose the time of day that is most convenient for
 them. The votes for time of day release are also aggregated and the time of day with the
 most votes will determine the exact time the Territory is released on its release day!

Voting with Essence allows anyone with Essence to vote on a Territory release. 1 Essence
is equivalent to 1 vote and Players are able to pledge as many Essence votes to a Territory.




Voting with Tiles allows Players who own properties in the relevant country where the
Territory exists to pledge their T1 and T2 tiles as votes towards that Territory’s release.
Players are free to select the number of available tiles they wish to pledge. This voting
option allows those who may not necessarily have enough Essence to vote to still be able
to push for territories to be released in the country they own tiles in. Tiles also have
stronger voting power compared to Essence; 1 T1 tile is equivalent to 10 votes, and 1 T2
tile is equivalent to 5 votes.




Below is a helpful table detailing the number of votes based on the asset being pledged:

Asset Number of Votes* Voting Category Voting Status
1 Essence 1 Territories Available Now
1 T1 Tiles 10 Territories Available Now
1 T2 Tiles 5 Territories Available Now
1 T3 Tile 5 Future In-Territory Voting Available Later
1 T3 Tile 2 Future Country-Wide Voting Available Later
*Number of Votes associated with each digital item and voting category may be adjusted
from time to time.

Any Essence and/or tiles that are pledged towards a territory will remain locked until
after the territory is released. It is important to note that while voting allows Players to
choose which territories will be released first, the territories with the most votes at the
end of each Territory lock period will be queued for release while the remaining submitted
Territories retain their votes leading up to the end of the next lock period. Given the
thousands of territories that could be released, Players should be aware that any pledged
Essence and Land may potentially remain locked for many years. The pledged Essence will
thereby be locked from gameplay and trading.

So please remember, participating in Territory voting is completely optional and it is
always up to the individual Player to decide whether participating makes sense and is
appropriate for them. Please carefully consider the length of time your pledged assets
could potentially be locked for before deciding to participate. With that in mind, pledged
tiles will function normally when pledged, so utility like raiding is still possible from
​properties with tiles pledged in Territory voting.

Territory Release
Territories are scheduled for release based on the winning territory at the end of each lock
period. Initially the locks and releases will occur over several days, but over time these
may increase to every 24 hours, and the Territory with the highest votes will be accepted
and locked as the winner then scheduled for release in the queue after the release of the
previous Territory winner. There is no set number of votes that is required, only that a
territory must have the most votes out of all the other territories in order to be crowned
the winner. This will continue on with a new winner being determined every several days,
until the frequency of deciding winners is changed or all territories are released.

Once a Territory is released, the Essence and tiles locked to that territory will also be
released soon after. Players should be aware that the unlocking of Essence and tiles will
occur after the territory is released, not when it is locked in and scheduled for release
(crowned the daily winner). To easily differentiate which territories are scheduled for
release and which are available for voting, the new Territories page displays these sections
clearly.

The Territories section at the very top of the page shows the locked territories which have
successfully passed the voting round and will show countdown timers to their actual
release dates:




The Upcoming Territories section shows the territories which are still available to vote on:




This section is also customisable to display the most relevant information and territories,
with toggles to display all your votes, display voting numbers based on number of votes or
voting asset quantity (Essence, T1, T2), and filters displaying territories voted by you or
territories released to date.

Payment UI Update

In addition to the 3 major feature releases of Boosted E-ther, Territories and Tier 3 Land,
and the pilot Earth 2 Governance system, there have also been UI updates to the payment
interface when purchasing tiles. This latest update involves a full transition of the payment
interface to our signature Dark Mode and, overall, makes it easier for Players to identify
details of the property they are purchasing (number of tiles, Tier of tiles, etc.) the payment
methods available to them and just looks cool!


December 3, 2023 – Brisbane Australia – We’re pleased to introduce the Earth 2 Skins store, a place where you can acquire and in the future trade collectible skins of various items to use inside our 3D world, E2V1. Earth 2 Skins function a little differently to standard skin systems, so be sure to read the article carefully as it provides an important introduction about how the Earth 2 Skins “Blueprint” system is designed to work.

The Blueprint System


The Earth 2 Blueprint system will almost always require the Player to have the base item first before they can apply the skin. For example, if the Player has an avatar skin, they will first need a base avatar, or living Earth 2 being, to apply the skin to. In the case of a full avatar skin, this would be a case of having a synthesised avatar to apply the skin to, you would not need base versions of all the various clothing items for a full avatar skin.

Many base items will be discovered, crafted or earned via various game play or a byproduct of the EcoSim inside Earth 2, meaning the Player first needs to do something in order to acquire the base item.  Players will almost always be able to sell skins, but not always base items, however, base items which are a byproduct from the EcoSim will have a higher chance of being tradeable. 


It is important to note that most skins will also have a random chance to drop when the Player is doing certain actions, for example, when the Player synthesises their avatar, there is a chance they will receive a skin during the process. Likewise, if the Player is crafting, building or producing something, there will always be a chance they receive a skin as part of this process.

Direct link to the Earth 2 Skins store : https://app.earth2.io/#skins

A few words from Shane about this new system

“Kyung was created by our team using our new character pipeline, all of her clothes and outfit are 100% created by our modellers, her face and body using Z-Brush, Blender and other 3rd party software, animations created by our animator and applied by our animation programmer with a lot of me checking in, keeping across the process and asking for things to be adjusted to get the best look possible and Peter with an technical eagle eye pointing out any issues and ensuring guidelines are followed – all of this built around a very cool modular character system we’re developing. So we’re really excited about showing her off to the world!”, said Earth 2 Founder, Shane Isaac.

“I was reluctant to launch our skins system too early and I understand some will prefer to wait until the pre-alpha is live, which is fine, but before offering any skins I at least wanted to show the actual 3D model animated and in-engine as opposed to showing 2D concept art which can be misleading, especially when, or if, the 3D model ever gets released or even static 3D models will million of polygons churned out to look amazing but have not yet been optimised and have very little chance to look that good in-game.”

“We are building a Metaverse on a small budget when compared to some of our potential competitors, and while we are more than up to the challenge and have shown impressive progress, it would be inhibiting to think we can never introduce new products or revenue streams. I look at our Earth 2 Skins system as a win-win, where Players get to see the items available for purchase optimised and in a game-ready state, not 2D concept art or billion poly 3D models, and the sales of those items help us to continue building and expanding the team with the end result being our Players getting a better quality product with better looking avatars, items and so forth.”

“Finally, after we’ve refined our character pipeline process and maybe expanded our modeller team, I have a vision where I want to introduce a system where Players can submit requests for full characters or even individual items to be added to the Earth 2 Skin store. I would be looking to use the Governance system to allow Players to vote on which character or item they would like to see added and without any promises, our team would periodically review the top voted submissions and vet possibly accepting it and then developing and listing it on the store! The final decision would be with Earth 2, but if we did select a submission and there were no copyright issues, I will be looking at a system that rewards the owner of the artwork, essentially rewarding artists and creativity, something I feel very strongly about. Aside from these accepted submissions, I also plan to involve the community with choosing names and background stories for official Earth 2 merch characters. I hope all these additional details share a little more insight into my overall vision here”.Earth 2 Skin Details

Please check the following descriptions carefully.

Skin Name 

This is the specific name given to the skin. In the future we’d like Players to be involved in the naming process.

Type

This provides high level details about the what type of skin it is (i.e a full avatar, shorts, shoes, hat)

Description

A short description about the skin. In the future we’d like Players to be involved in this process with background stories, lore etc.

Total Supply

This is the total supply that will ever be released for this skin. This total supply includes supply for sale in the Earth 2 Skin store and earnable via E2V1 and the EcoSim.

Availability

This will show how many items of the skin are remaining. It may not always be displayed.

EcoSim Total

This provides the number of total available skins acquirable via game play and the EcoSim

EcoSim Drop Chance


This provides the chance of receiving the drop in the EcoSim or game play. Note that this chance is only applied until all items are claimed if it is a limited item.

Base Item Required

Confirms whether a base item is required and often what that base item is.

Customisation


Whether the skin can be further customised

Can be resold


Confirms whether the skin can be resold between Players.

Further Price Reduction


Confirms whether the skin will see any future price reductions after the first listing.

Remember to keep an eye on the website for random skin drops! They can happen any time, possibly unannounced and for various amounts of time!


What is the Power of Essence?

A question many have pondered over time. The simple answer is that the Power of Essence will be largely determined by those who hold it, a liberty placed deeply into the hands of those who own such a vital source of power.

In the ever-evolving Metaverse that is Earth 2, the fluctuation of the Power of Essence is set to become a mesmerising dance, nurtured by the Power of Belief. This term draws parallels from real-world occurrences where the perceived value of an item or commodity is often influenced by the collective belief in its potential and utility. It’s a concept as old as time, yet as enigmatic as the universe itself— our belief has the potential to shape reality. 

Essence is not only a commodity or resource; it’s also a power with the ability to become a reflection of its owners’ pulse, a dynamic force that rises and falls with the tides of collective conviction. When belief skyrockets, Essence has the potential to soar, pulsating with a surge of renewed power and strength. When belief or desire wanes, its dynamism of energy and strength wanes with it. The phenomena become a gripping spectacle of sentiment-meets-economics, a testament to the power of collective will.

This mystical connection between two parallel realities is not merely an economic principle, but many consider it to underpin the course of Earth 2’s evolution.  An ethereal cycle where Essence is used to create and build by crafting Power Cells to provide energy, and processing Resource Occurrence Units into Raw Materials with a power which waxes and wanes in potency, mirroring the ever-shifting tides of its owners’ belief from an alternate reality. 

Therefore, one unit of Essence might shift in power from one day to the next, simultaneously increasing or decreasing the potential charge of every unutilised particle of Essence at that point in time within the ever-evolving Metaverse.

Prepare to be a part of this exhilarating reality, where your belief is not just a sentiment but the source of power that helps fuel the wonder of Earth 2!

“I have been very excited to confirm this locked fiat, adaptable token value system for some time. The system’s objective is to establish a robust economic basis for all existing and prospective Essence holders inside Earth 2. We needed a simple way to explain this anomaly, so to sum it up in a straightforward manner, we call it the Power of Belief”, said Shane Isaac, Founder of Earth 2. 

“In my opinion, many aspiring web3 projects make the mistake of tying token quantity to essential products, items or commodities which are prerequisites for users to have any meaningful experience or hands-on involvement with their platform. This approach results in hyper inflated prices that may make for great headlines when super early token holders decide to splurge, but can subsequently result in blocking the scalability and growth of the project due to the establishment of exorbitant and unrealistic prices that new users face when they want to get involved or become part of its ecosystem”.

“The approach I wanted to take with Earth 2 means we will lock in some values, especially for core facets of the EcoSim such as powering buildings and objects. This will mean tethering an internal measurement unit to a locked fiat figure which can be remunerated using Essence resulting in an adaptable token value system that slides, not only rewarding Players holding Essence if the externally traded price of Essence increases, but incentivising Players actively holding to build and utilise their dynamically empowered Essence inside Earth 2 on the back of such growth”.

“Conversely, under specific conditions Earth 2 may also activate similar mechanisms in response to events where Essence drops below certain external trading points by overriding and increasing the threshold on the internal power of Essence ratio in order to help stimulate trade, encourage building and boost the overall economy”.

“This overarching design ensures that we remember and reward our early supporters by creating a potential outcome where those who have mined and held onto their Essence can still capitalise, especially if we witness an increase in the external trading value of Essence. Simultaneously, it ensures that new players won’t encounter significant disadvantages or entry barriers caused by excessively high prices tied to essential products, which could otherwise hinder their participation in the Earth 2 ecosystem.”

“Many people forget the fact that Earth 2’s ultimate objective isn’t merely Essence but rather delivering the ultimate utility to land via a sustainable EcoSim that over time will be used to build infrastructure, deliver experiences, facilitate trade, manufacture digital goods, enable commerce and much more.  Essence just happens to play a vital role in this Player driven ecosystem”. 

– Shane Isaac, Founder of Earth 2
Example

The intention behind the following example is to enhance people’s comprehension of how this system will be implemented within Earth 2. It’s crucial to emphasise that the figures used below are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as finalised or confirmed ratios or values.

Scenarios

A Blue Level Micro Power Cell requires 1,000,000 Energy Units as part of the crafting process. Let’s assume there is a tethered value of $0.10 USD per 100,000 Energy Units and the current externally traded value of Essence is $0.10 USD. 

This would result in 10 Essence being required as part of the crafting process for a Blue Level Micro Power Cell.

Now let’s say the externally traded value of Essence rises to $1.00, therefore, at this point in time it would require 1 Essence to activate and operate the same Blue Level Micro Power Cell.

If the externally traded price of Essence is $0.20, then 5 Essence would be required. If $2.65 then 0.3774 Essence, and so forth.

If the externally traded value of Essence increases higher than the price it was when a Power Cell was originally crafted, it may offer a favourable chance for Players to dispose of their idle and eligible Power Cells, beginning with the most potent, in order to recover the Essence and recraft new ones requiring less Essence for the same strength Power Cell. 

Once a Power Cell is crafted with Essence, the ratio remains fixed until the Power Cell is disposed of.

Note: The scenarios mentioned above are provided solely as examples to simplify the understanding of these mechanics. In most cases, when you create and activate a Power Cell with Essence, you will be able to retrieve an equivalent amount of Essence back if you dispose of the Power Cell in a fully charged state. These examples do not encompass the prerequisites for recharging Essence or specific situations in which Essence might be consumed when things like supercharged options are activated.

January 28, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – There are many contributing factors that will make up the Metaverse and wearable cosmetics will certainly form one big part. We believe it is important for a contending platform in the Metaverse space to display the capability of creating its own appealing IP, effectively designing and developing a platform other IP brands want to be part of over time, not a platform that is solely reliant on its own existence because of other IP holders.

From concept art to being game ready, Archiok is one example of Earth 2’s ability to conceptualise a unique character that commands a certain presence and aura around it, even though as of yesterday the character was unknown to the world. Archiok is also the first example of a character who will exist inside of E2V1 but can also be worn by Players who own the rights to his skin, albeit for cosmetic purposes as the skin will not grant supernatural powers the real Archiok may possess. Skins like Archiok are only available for limited times , so be sure to keep an eye out on our socials for new releases or check our skin store from time to time ( https://app.earth2.io/#skins ). It is important to note that our skin store can only be accessed when logged in.

Important Things To Remember About Earth 2 Skins
Since the introduction of Kyung, Earth 2’s first avatar skin made using our own character pipeline, Earth 2 has dropped 2 more highly popular skin collections: the ‘Festive’ collection and the ‘Motorway Marauder’ collection. 

These skin collections are part of the overall Blueprint System planned which, to recap, will allow avatar skins and outfit skins to be applied to a base avatar within E2V1. 

For more information on the Blueprint System, read the full article here: 

https://earth2.io/news/earth2skins

While the Blueprint System introduces the concept of skins and how they will be used in E2V1, below are some key points we would like to emphasise about the Earth 2 Skin Collectibles leading up to the release of E2V1:

Acquiring Skins

Acquiring skins directly from the Earth 2 official Skin Store or participating in new skin collection drops is completely optional. 

If you choose to participate in new skin drops, you will be able to secure the avatar or outfit skin that you like, usually at the once-only discounted price that applies to most of the new skins in these early releases. 

It is absolutely fine not to participate in the new skin drops, all Earth 2 Players will still have a percentage chance to acquire skins while synthesising their avatar or participating in eligible EcoSim activities. However, acquiring skins this way is not guaranteed and each skin has a different ‘EcoSim Drop Chance’ that determines the probability of acquiring that skin through the EcoSim. 

Supply

Each Earth 2 Skin may have a different supply limit. If a skin has a supply limit of 3000, this means that only 3000 of that particular skin will be created and be possible to own. Once that supply limit is reached, the only way to obtain that skin will be through P2P trading on the Bazaar. 

The EcoSim Drop Chance of a skin is also affected by its supply limit. If a skin has a 2% EcoSim Drop Chance, but the skin has a supply limit that has been reached, there will be 0% chance of obtaining that skin through the EcoSim. 

The early skins dropped by Earth 2 leading up to the E2V1 release will more likely be limited in supply. These ‘Limited Supply’ early skins are another way in which early supporters are rewarded with higher rarity of their skins collectibles.

‘Limited Supply’ skin drops will become less frequent in the future and will be more frequently replaced with ‘Unlimited Supply’ skins.  Most Unlimited Supply skins will still have a form of restricted availability by requiring Players to wait for the skin to be made available from the Skin Store at certain points through the year, or hope to acquire it via gameplay inside E2V1.

Future Release

It is not our goal to have these early skin drops selling out during their maiden release. Rather it is our intention to provide an opportunity for our early supporters to secure the skins they like at a discounted price and the added benefit of higher rarity through an all-time ‘Limited Supply’ of those skins.

Utility & Customisation

Earth 2 is building a modular clothing system (the Blueprint System) whereby most items of clothing – especially if sold separately – will be interchangeable on selected avatars making them more diverse and providing the Player with more ways to spice up their avatar’s outfits to show off in E2V1.

The version of the skin you see in the Skin Store is the base version you receive when you purchase a skin. However, there will be opportunities in the future to tailor outfits in-game, allowing for the adjustment of fabrics, prints, colours, and more.

We understand that fashion has already shown the major part it has to play in the Metaverse so we would like to remind people that while some Players may decide to set rules in the future for certain skins being required for access or as a ticket of entry under certain circumstances, from Earth 2’s perspective these skins are for purely for cosmetic purposes in E2V1.

Exclusively From Earth 2’s Internal Character Pipeline

Earth 2 is proud to have uniquely designed 100% of the skins you see listed in our store and it is important to remember that these Skins are the end result of a long and stringent internal character pipeline we have developed.

Each skin starts from concept art which is reviewed and goes through numerous iterations before final approval. Once approved, it is then passed to our 3D modelling team for sculpting into high-poly then into low-poly with further reviews and strict adherence to our pipeline protocols throughout the process. When the low-poly model is finished, the 3D team finalises the model with UV mapping and texture baking, running through their own QA processes during this stage.

Once the entire 3D -sculpted model is approved, the models enter the skinning, rigging and weight painting process before being passed on to our animation team for further testing with various animations involving another set of QA such as minimising clipping and identifying any other potential flaws in the model. 

The model then goes  through the final process of approval with a game developer to ensure it passes all final tests and is absolutely game-ready for E2V1.

Game-Ready Skins

The above steps only represent a light explanation of our internal character and clothing pipeline to illustrate the processes we have implemented to create game ready skins that are not just static concept art images or a high-poly 3D model that may look nice but lacks any kind of optimisations for application in-game. There is a lot of work that takes place in order to get these skins to the stage where our Players see them in the video footage provided in the skins explainer videos.

Supporting Earth 2

Each Skin sold via the skin store helps support different parts of the development of Earth 2 by providing us with new opportunities to further expand our team, speed up development and keep progressing closer to our short and long term goals for E2V1 and Earth 2.

These Skin drops also give Earth 2 a chance to show off our ability and versatility in avatar, outfit, and accessory creation so even if you’re not keen on picking up a skin yourself, remember to have fun and simply enjoy the progress being shared!

Thanks for reading and remember to keep an eye out for our next official Earth 2 Skin drop! 


February 22, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – We are delighted to officially confirm the retroactive air drop of Essence to the current Landowners of Tier 1 (T1) properties in countries where the sale of T1 land was locked, resulting in repressed New Land Prices for T1 properties in those affected regions prior to the Essence Distribution Commitment announcement on the 3rd of December, 2021. This retroactive air drop, which involves the Essence missed from the original EDC for T1 Landowners, fulfils another one of Earth 2’s promises to resolve the issue prior to the heavily anticipated White Paper and Essence Token launch.

RETROACTIVE ESSENCE AIRDROP

The retroactive air drop of Essence remedies the restricted EDC attributed to T1 properties that were affected by diminished new land purchases prior to and including the 3rd of December, 2021. Today, we are rectifying the reduced EDC attributed to those T1 properties that were impacted by restricted land sales and NLP growth by recalculating the EDC value for these affected T1 properties. 

Earth 2 has dedicated a significant amount of time and effort into exhaustively exploring many potential scenarios in order to find the most realistic, probable and workable representation of new land sales and NLP growth in the affected regions. Much care and consideration was taken to construct fair and robust logic behind the solution from our extensive array of property sales data and once all the scenarios were processed we selected the highest possible option available. 

As an apology for Players affected by this issue we have decided that all T1 properties affected by restricted NLP growth prior to the EDC announcement will have the recalculated value of EDC Essence credited instantly into the balances of the current owners of the affected T1 properties, removing the requirement of consistently claiming to access the promised Essence. 

This is essentially an air drop of Essence which ensures the full amount of Essence is in Players’ account balances prior to the upcoming token release. This air drop method allows Earth 2 to immediately remedy the Essence which has not been available to claim to date while providing the utmost respect to the time that Players have already given to Earth 2.

AFFECTED PLAYERS

Allocating Essence to the current owners of the affected T1 properties best aligns with the original design and purpose of the EDC which was for the Essence to be claimed progressively and required the owner to maintain ownership of their T1 property in order to continue accessing their promised Essence.

Therefore, the retroactive Essence air drop is a special reparation distributed to the current Landowners of T1 properties affected by restrictions to new land sales and, consequently, the growth of New Land Price (NLP) in particular regions. 

By the time this announcement is published, the retroactive Essence air drop will have been distributed to all affected T1 properties’ Landowners and will be listed under Essence transactions.

If you own a T1 property that was affected by a locked country you will receive a notification of the Essence drop under Transaction History – Essence – Admin Action – Locked Country Essence Air Drop for <countryname>.

We would also like to open an avenue of communication for Players who wish to report any unexpected results.  If you believe you are missing or have received an incorrect amount for this specific Essence air drop, please submit a support ticket at https://support.earth2.io and include the following information:

Subject line: Retroactive EDC Air Drop
Your Earth 2 Profile / Profile link
Links to the relevant T1 properties you own. 
Your expected results based on the above T1 properties which provided the unexpected results.
It is our hope that this retroactive Essence air drop demonstrates Earth 2’s continued commitment to its Players and fulfilling promises made. We extend our sincerest gratitude for your ongoing support, patience, and engagement with Earth 2 and once again apologise to Landowners who were affected by this issue.



March 02, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 has a small group of passionate content creators who regularly put time and effort toward enriching our community with diverse material tailored to various demographics. Importantly, this material allows people to better understand various aspects of Earth 2, such as how things work, a feature’s background and purpose.

As Earth 2 transitions into its next phase, we thought it would be a gesture of good faith to provide an avenue for these dedicated members of our community to receive potential rewards for their continued efforts making content they would have nevertheless created and released otherwise, while also providing a way for Players to get behind their favourite existing and emerging Earth 2 content creators! We are, therefore, thrilled to officially announce the release of this highly anticipated feature created specifically for Earth 2 Supporters and Content Creators alike: Yellow Energy!

This unique rewards system has been designed to potentially benefit players who have exhibited creativity, effort and dedication on various social media platforms, blogs, podcasts and websites. Yellow Energy will be infused upon Players who create engaging and accurate content pertaining to Earth 2, fostering an informative, entertaining and supportive impact on the community. 

To repeat, it is important to note that this system has been designed for people who are existing or aspiring content creators who create high quality content which is easy to digest, entertaining, informative, accurate and engaging. Reach and exposure are factors that will be taken into consideration for some submissions, but our end goal is to help support content creators who fit the guidelines by setting early expectations on what is acceptable and what is not. If your submission is not accepted, do not be disheartened and instead keep improving and try to follow the guidelines better if you wish to take part in the program.

One of our goals here is to ensure content creators are sharing accurate details as we have noticed some content creators do not check facts before sharing information. Furthermore, the Yellow Energy system does not in any way stop content creators from creating and voicing their opinions, and Earth 2 is always willing to listen to various opinions. However, if those opinions contain inaccuracies or were created with the goal of damaging Earth 2, it is hardly reasonable to expect a reward from Earth 2 for such content. Likewise, if a content creator creating positive content that contains inaccuracies will also come under scrutiny for approval.

Our main goal for the Yellow Energy feature is to ensure content creators are sharing accurate details, using this system it will be entirely possible to receive Yellow Energy in return for neutral, high quality and well balanced content as well.

CONTENT CONTRIBUTION SYSTEM
What Is Yellow Energy?

Yellow Energy represents a unique and natural form of emanation from within the core of Earth 2, serving as a token of gratitude and appreciation for those who create content following the system guidelines. It is the newest component of Earth 2’s larger Rewards, Badges and Achievements (RBAs) system. Unlike Red Energy which is obtained through actions of conflict (see Red Energy Announcement), Yellow Energy is obtained through publishing engaging, helpful and supportive high quality content that is easy to digest, entertaining, informative and accurate.

It is clear that Yellow Energy will not be obtainable by everyone, but those who do not obtain Yellow Energy should still consider supporting the concept and the content creators who do make use of it as it will create multiple sources of new material explaining Earth 2, it’s features, purpose and background provides multiple avenues for people to digest and better understand various facets of Earth 2 which is overall better for our platform.

Uniquely, Yellow Energy will be redeemable for Essence at a ratio of 1 Yellow Energy Unit for $0.20 USD of Essence. The Essence will come from our marketing and rewards Essence pool. The redemption period will start between 3-6 months of the official Essence token launch.

How Is Yellow Energy Awarded?

Once a contribution has been submitted via the Content Contributions page on the website, it will be evaluated on its merits by the Earth 2 Team and awarded Yellow Energy based on a series of qualitative and quantitative criteria which follows an internal algorithm used to calculate the final Yellow Energy and Essence rewards. Approval and reward rates should not be taken for granted as they are dynamic and vary based on the contribution’s platform, format, and Contributor.

YELLOW ENERGY SYSTEM 

The Yellow Energy System is a progression-based system which starts at a base Boost of 1 and increases for each associated Title . Titles are determined  by the Yellow Energy XPs (reward and penalty points) obtained through content contribution submissions. 

Title	Boost	Yellow Energy Experience Points
Novice	1	0
Adept	1.25	2500
Advanced	1.5	10000
Epic	1.75	30000
Legendary	2	75000
Ascended	2.25	150000
Mythical	2.5	250000
Celestial	2.75	350000
Immortal	3	500000
Transcendent	5	1000000
For each contribution that yields Yellow Energy through valid (positive value) or invalid (negative value) submissions, the equivalent value of Yellow Energy Experience Points (XPs) to Yellow Energy is awarded to the Contributor’s Title. The Yellow Energy System rewards truly dedicated content creators and supporters who regularly make Earth 2 content that fit within the feature framework. As Players gain more Yellow Energy XPs, they progress to higher Titles which in turn apply a higher boost to their submissions’ Yellow Energy XPs.

The Titles of Players who submit content contribution submissions can be seen from the overview of ‘Open’ submissions. While lower Titles may not necessarily mean the Contributor is not a true Earth 2 supporter (they may just be new), higher Titles are good indicators of reliable and established Contributors. 

Each Title has an associated boost which is applied to the Player’s Yellow Energy reward and XPs. The following is an example of how the boost will determine the final Yellow Energy reward and XPs. Note: The reward values in the following table are EXAMPLES only – they use DUMMY DATA which should NOT be interpreted as real data. 

If the Contributor had a Title of : Novice
Boost:	1
Content Format:	Video
Views:	2000
Likes:	1000
Relevance: 	High
Accuracy: 	High
Digestibility: 	High
Supportive Content (Positivity):	High
Yellow Energy:	500 
Yellow Energy XPs:	500 
If the Contributor had a Title of : Legendary
Boost	3.5
Yellow Energy:	1750
Yellow Energy XPs:	1750 

GETTING STARTED (Creating A Content Contribution Submission)
To earn Yellow Energy and Yellow Energy XPs, Players must submit their original (as in their own) content contribution via the Content Contribution System. Content Creators who share accurate, informative, inspiring or otherwise relevant content that fits the framework of the Yellow Energy feature will be eligible for Yellow Energy.

All that is required to make a Yellow Energy submission is having an Earth 2 account that is KYC verified. Signing up for an account is FREE and getting KYC verified only takes a couple of minutes. If you have issues with setting up a KYC account, you can create a support ticket via https://support.earth2.io/hc/en-us and we will work on other ways to validate your account to submit social content.

If you are interested in making Earth 2 content and earning Yellow Energy but don’t yet have an Earth 2 account, sign up now! Non-content creators can still benefit from the Yellow Energy System by endorsing valid contributions (see ‘Guidelines For Endorsing Contributions’ section below). If you don’t yet have Essence, purchase your first property to start claiming E-ther now: https://earth2.io/news/territories 

Submitting a Content Contribution is easy:

Go to ‘Content Contributions’ from your Player menu

Find the ‘Submit Contributions’ button from the ‘Your Submissions’ page. 

Complete and submit the  ‘Submit Contribution’ form. Be sure to provide all the relevant information such as the platform and the format of your contribution, and some text to describe your original content. (See ‘Guidelines For Contributors’ for more information)  

Remember to stake your Essence at the point of submission creation to avoid missing out.

Guidelines For Contributors (Creating Valid Contribution Submissions) 
To create a valid Content Contribution submission, it is first important to keep in mind that the Yellow Energy System is designed for genuine Earth 2 Contributors who have put in time and effort into creating engaging and accurate content pertaining to Earth 2, fostering an informative, entertaining and overall supportive impact on the community. Therefore, there is a standard that is expected and required of the content that is submitted and we ask all Players to be self-critical when considering what they decide to submit. 

Contributors may create submissions for eligible content for consideration by the Earth 2 Team. To submit a valid Content Contribution submission, the minimum requirements are:

Contributors must submit their own  original content relating to Earth 2, the Earth 2 metaverse, the project or the Earth 2 brand; 
Contributors must submit content which has been shared or published outside of Earth 2; and
Submissions MUST NOT contain hateful /offensive / ill-intentioned / spam or otherwise unrelated content. These will be swiftly removed and the Contributor will be penalised.
The content must not have been submitted and approved/rejected before.
 To be deemed valid, a submission must meet the above requirements, as well as meet the  overall guidelines set for approvable content to receive a positive value (as in more than ‘0’) score on the evaluation criteria. 

Content URL: All content submitted must have a valid URL from a valid platform. It must be publicly available and not require any content to be downloaded. 

Eligible Platforms: Including, but not limited to, Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, Spotify, Youtube and X. An ‘Other’ option is available for platforms which have not yet been added to the list of available platforms, which will regularly be updated as needed. Not all alternative platforms submitted will be added. 

Eligible Formats: Including, but not limited to, video, audio, image and text content. An ‘Other’ option is available for formats which have not yet been added to the list of available platforms, which will occasionally be updated as needed. Not all alternative formats submitted will be added. 

Case-by-Case approved content: Content type that is not guaranteed to be approved. Retweets and comments fall into this category. We forsee that the majority of comments and retweets will not be eligible but a select few may qualify because they meet the requirements of content such as a large number of views, likes, comments, etc. We must stress the strict standard with which these will be evaluated and do not recommend this for most players which will also free up our internal team resources to focus on the more relevant submissions. 

Endorsement Cap: The number of endorsing players determines how many players may stake Essence to a submission, as well as how much Essence they are able to stake. Less endorsers mean more Essence can be staked and rewarded for each endorser. Influencers or community leaders may wish to communicate with their followers/community to coordinate when they will submit a contribution and how many endorsers they will allow. 

Staking Your Essence: At the point of submitting a contribution, Contributors have an opportunity to stake their own Essence to their submission. The stakable amount is determined by the endorsement cap.

Penalties For Invalid Contributions

The Yellow Energy System relies on the honesty and goodwill of its participants. Submissions which are deemed invalid due to being hateful /offensive / ill-intentioned / spam or otherwise unrelated to Earth 2 will be rejected and the Contributor will be penalised with negative Yellow Energy Experience Points, in addition to the a loss of up to 20% of any staked Essence  loss which applies to all stakers. This measure is to ensure fairness and uphold the standard of content which aligns with Earth 2’s values. Repeat offenders may be blocked entirely from creating new submissions to mitigate further losses to innocent stakers. 

Therefore, we encourage all Players to adhere to the guidelines provided to foster a respectful and supportive community. Let’s continue to build Earth 2 as a platform of creativity, positivity, and collaboration.

Guideline Overview for Contributors

CONTRIBUTION COMPONENT	VALUE	ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Valid URLs	https://…	URLs must begin with https://&nbsp;
Valid Platforms	Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
Spotify
Youtube
X
Other	The ‘Other’ option is available for platforms that are not currently listed. 
Valid Formats	Video
Audio
Image
Text
Other	The ‘Other’ option is available for platforms that are not currently listed.
Endorsement Cap	1-33	Number of Players who can endorse your submission
Min. Stake	1	When the Endorsement Cap is set to 1000.
Max. Stake	30.3	When the Endorsement Cap is set to 33
YE Rewards	TBC	Based on scores against Evaluation Criteria
Essence Rewards	0% to 10%	Awarded on a case by case basis by the Earth 2 Evaluation Team
YE Penalties	TBC	Given on a case by case basis by the Earth 2 Evaluation Team. YE penalties do not affect the YE balance but do affect the Contributor’s Yellow Energy Experience Points
Essence Penalties	0% to -20%	Given on a case by case basis by the Earth 2 Evaluation Team.
Guidelines For Endorsing Contributions (Essence Staking)

While Yellow Energy is strictly for Earth 2 Content Creators, all Players have the potential opportunity to reap Essence rewards by endorsing another Player’s valid content contributions. To endorse a contribution, Players will stake Essence to the contribution via the ‘All Submissions’ overview. 

When a contribution submission is successfully approved by the Earth 2 Team, the Essence rewarded to all Players who have endorsed a contribution will be relative to the percentage of Essence that was originally staked for that endorsement. 

The amount of Essence that can be staked in an endorsement varies from contribution to contribution and is determined by the endorsement cap specified by the Contributor (the Player who created the submission). 

All submissions allow a maximum of 1000 Essence to be staked against each contribution. The Contributor specifies how many people can endorse their contribution (from 33 to 1000 people) so the amount of Essence that is required to endorse a certain contribution is the number of endorsers / 1000 total stakeable Essence. 

The reward for staked Essence is only given if the submission is approved (granted positive Yellow Energy rewards) and the Essence reward % will be determined on a case-by-case basis by the Earth 2 team. We cannot stress enough for supporters not to expect big percentage rewards on their staked Essence. You are supporting content you feel strongly about and believe is relevant and may receive an Essence reward ranging between 1-10% of your staked Essence, if the submission is approved.

NOTE: Submissions that are deemed invalid and receive ‘0’ Yellow Energy rewards will incur a loss of up to 20% of the staked Essence to anyone who endorsed the contribution submission, including the Contributor themself (if they endorsed their own contribution). Therefore, Players who endorse submissions should be mindful and stake their Essence to valid contributions to avoid potential losses and help to strengthen the endorsement system. The exact percentage of Essence loss can range from 0% to 20% and will be influenced by the submission rejection reason. 

The purpose of this loss system is to ensure the internal team is receiving correctly endorsed content from the community allowing for the best use of their time reviewing fully endorsed submissions.

Guideline Overview for Stakers

STAKING COMPONENT	VALUE	ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Staking Amount	1 to 30.3	Determined by submission Endorsement Cap)
Potential Staking Reward	0% +	Determined by Earth 2 evaluation team, on a case-by-case basis. 
Potential Staking Loss	0 to -20%	Determined by Staking Amount
Staking Limit	Nil	Stakers can stake as much Essence as they like
Reporting Limit	1 per Submission	Stakers may report an offensive/harmful/spam or otherwise irrelevant submission.
Staking Duration	1-2 weeks	Determined by length of time it takes to evaluate and reward/penalise a submission
Evaluation Criteria

Contributions which are submitted by Players are evaluated against the following criteria:

Performance Metrics. 
Performance metrics (views, likes, comments, shares) are used to calculate the base points for the submission.  

Contribution Metrics Endorsement Scores
Contribution Metrics are used to award points based on engaging and accurate content pertaining to Earth 2, fostering an informative, entertaining and overall supportive impact on the community. 

This evaluation criteria is a synergy of the different components which define a content contribution through a logical framework to calculate the Yellow Energy Reward for each submission. The Final Yellow Energy Reward for a contribution submission is the sum of the Performance score and the Contribution score multiplied by the relevant boost. Different content formats, such as: Video, Audio, Image and Text are also weighted differently in the scoring system.

Videos and visual submissions done well will often have higher rewards, but in some cases this may also extend to the likes of detailed websites, blogs, software, and so on.

GENERAL SYSTEM HOUSEKEEPING

Approvals and rejections of Content Contribution submissions will slowly begin next week. We ask for patience as our team applies the guidelines to submissions and we believe over time the system will become more streamlined. A brief period of time will be provided for invalid submissions to be removed by the Contributor before approvals and rejections are finalised. 

After the first couple of weeks of this system being live, submission evaluation will stabilise  and Contributors and endorsers alike should expect a strict standard of evaluation. Contributors also have a reward success rate that is affected by the number of submissions that are approved and every rejection contributes to lowering their success rate which in turn makes their submissions less appealing to endorsers. 

Genuine Contributors should also consider adding their Earth 2 Player ID or Profile link to their profiles/channels so that potential endorsers can easily match the content Contributor to the genuine creator of the content. 

By introducing the Yellow Energy system where Players can be awarded for existing and future content, we hope to recognise our long term Contributors, as well as encourage emerging content creators and supporters of Earth 2. We look forward to building this incredible community together.

Join the Journey, Shape the Future. Earth 2 –  The People’s Metaverse.


FAQs:
Are Holobuildings included in the Content Contribution and Yellow Energy System?

No, Holobuildings are not included in the Content Contribution system. There will be something else for Holobuilding creators released in the future. However, you may create a submission for posts, images and/or videos which inform or educate people about HBs or the HB features in Earth 2. These will be evaluated on the merits of the post itself, not the craftsmanship of the HB. 

Can I submit my entire X profile for evaluation?

No, our team will not approve any submissions for profiles or channels. The content contribution submission must provide a specific and entire content for evaluation, with clear reason and details to support the submission. 

Can I submit content in a language other than English?

Currently there is a limitation with accepting content in languages other than English. We will be accepting Korean applications as we have people in our team who speak Korean. We will initially trial submissions in other languages but may restrict the type of content that can be submitted due to the language limitations of our evaluation team.

Are translations of Earth 2 content valid submissions? 

It depends on where the translation was published and the audience. We recommend submitting contributions of translations of official Earth 2 content such as articles and announcements. Translations of regular comments will not be accepted.  

Do E2-related Polls count as content contributions?

This depends on the purpose of the poll and the poll options. Please consider the contribution value of the poll and whether it offers more than just entertainment before making a submission. Check the Evaluation Criteria for more details. 

Are retweets of Earth 2’s or the CEO’s tweets considered valid? 

Most retweets will not be considered valid and should not be submitted. However, if the retweet offers more information / insight / original content and can stand on its own merit against the evaluation criteria and has significant engagement or coverage, then it is worth making a submission.

Do memes count as valid content?

No, although they can be entertaining, memes are not eligible content unless they have significant and measurable coverage or engagement. 

I was an interviewee in an interview posted on Youtube. Can I submit the interview for content contribution as a participant in the interview?

While we acknowledge a lot of time and preparation can go into an interview from both the interviewer and interviewee’s side, we cannot accept content posted by another person even if you are featured in the video, as we cannot verify the details of your contribution. If you have collaborated with another player to create an interview or video and have both contributed creatively to the content, we suggest you reach a mutual agreement to post the content on your respective pages. Unfortunately, we cannot accept anything else as it takes away from the efforts put in by the interview organiser and video creator themselves. 

My contribution that I submitted is not fully backed, should I remove it and resubmit?

No, we do not recommend removing or resubmitting purely based on not having a fully backed submission. Common reasons for why your submission may not be fully endorsed is either because you have set your endorsement cap to 1000 which requires more players to endorse, or your submission is viewed as invalid by other players. If the latter, please review your submission against the evaluation criteria we have shared. 

What happens if I endorse a submission made by a Contributor who is not the owner of that content?

There is a risk that you may lose 0-20% of the Essence you have staked to endorse that submission. The Earth 2 evaluation team may be lenient with penalties to stakers to avoid a loss to stakers if they deem the submission to have been submitted in a way which did not make it obvious to stakers that the content was not their original content. However, if the submission is very obviously invalid and staking was done carelessly, no such leniency will be provided and careless stakers should expect to lose Essence from endorsements they give ignorantly. 

What happens if someone creates a submission for a content they submitted before?

When this happens, no loss will be given to the endorsers as it is not something they will be able to see. Instead, the Contributor will be penalised with negative Yellow Energy XPs and a rejected submission which will affect their Title and success rate respectively. 

Can I make a Content Contribution submission for historic content?

Yes, of course you can. However, you cannot create multiple submissions for the same content, or create submissions for content which have been copied and shared multiple times. 

Will YE be tradeable?

No, at this stage rewards such as Red Energy, Yellow Energy and future Energies will not be tradeable but if this changes confirmation will be provided by Earth 2. 



March 02, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to confirm we are openly accepting early applications for early testing of various aspects of the E2V1 (Earth 2 Version 1) pre-alpha. These applications are being accepted in advance so that when the time comes, we will have a list of willing supporters on hand and ready to help out!

Over the past three years, our dedicated team have poured countless hours into developing the foundations of this pristine, seamless 1:1 scale digital representation of Earth, painstakingly capturing every piece of geolocational data we could source and mapping, modelling, projecting and transcoding that data into 3D visualisation on an earth size scale.

Given the sheer scale of creating a 510,072,000 km² Earth that is not only topographically accurate and performant but also looks visually acceptable is a monumental task in itself which is understandably why most of our development has been heavily focused on this foundation. While still not complete, we have excitingly reached a stage where we can start testing various game mechanics!

Recently, we also reached another major milestone with the early introduction of multiplayer support for E2V1 and started testing the integration of some work in progress game mechanics with the goal of building on and improving the Player experience after the pre-alpha is released. 

A pre-alpha state can mean a lot of things, ranging from extremely early access containing some early game mechanics or proof of concept features to something that is playable but is far from complete lacking fully developed features that function together. 

This invitation does not guarantee we will immediately release the full pre-alpha version to testers, but rather carry out testing for various aspects such as load testing, stress testing or playtesting specific game mechanics when and where needed to help our team fix issues and improve. 

Earth 2 is a massive and ambitious project that we expect to span across many years of development as we build and improve, because we know this is a long term project, we’d like to at least get something playable into the hands of supporters as early as possible hence the introduction of the E2V1 pre-alpha.

Our long term goals have not changed, the pre-alpha is just the first step toward the creation of the 3D world we have always envisioned and continue along with the ideology of giving our Players ‘something to do’ as we build along the way.

You are welcome to sign up for the E2V1 pre-alpha using the link below :

https://forms.gle/KAyvtrikwfjfyTFZ7

We look forward to seeing you inside E2V1 later this year!



San Francisco, CA – March 17, 2024 – MetaGravity, a leading provider of decentralised cloud infrastructure solutions, and Earth 2, the creators of a groundbreaking 1:1 scale, interactive digital replica of the planet Earth, have today officially announced a collaborative partnership. This partnership aims to leverage MetaGravity’s HyperScale Engine to achieve unprecedented levels of scalability and performance within Earth 2, addressing the unique challenges of multiplayer support for their supermassive, interactive, and geolocational virtual world with the goal to support large scale populations of human players and AI NPCs.

Earth 2: an interactive and playable 1:1 scale virtual Earth

Earth 2 is the world’s geolocational metaverse; an evolving creation of a second virtual Earth that bridges a clear, familiar and relatable link between physical and virtual reality. This innovative approach to the metaverse establishes a direct correlation between locations in the real-world, to locations in the metaverse and our goal is to continuously develop and evolve the pristine 1:1 scale interactive 3D Earth providing people with a massive, open, seamless world to participate in and over time build an alternate reality around our physical existence.

Since launching in November 2020, Earth 2 has grown to become the largest Virtual Land Registry worldwide in size, ownership diversity and value with over 100 million parcels of land sold to date and continues to grow. Three years later we are still here developing and releasing core systems, remaining steadfast in our goal to build Earth 2 as we begin the exciting transition into the 3D world of E2V1 with emerging multiplayer support.

MetaGravity HyperScale Engine: Powering Multiplayer in a Planet-Sized Metaverse

Traditional game engine architectures struggle to manage the immense computational demands inherent to Earth 2’s expansive and persistent environment, especially when it comes to providing a massive multiplayer online experience on a single sharded server. This is where MetaGravity’s HyperScale Engine emerges as the solution of choice for Earth 2.

Offering a suite of innovative features, HyperScale Engine is designed to:

– Surpass concurrent player count limitations with high visual fidelity and density: Not only does HyperScale break through player concurrency limitations, it also proposes to help  Earth 2 maintain high visual fidelity and intricate world detail creating true spatial computing immersion.
– Reduce server costs: Through dynamic computation allocation, HyperScale Engine has the potential to deliver superior cost efficiency
– Easy to use: HyperScale Engine has the capability to  integrate with Unity 2023 (HDRP), a development workflow Earth 2 is extremely excited to try out.
A Partnership for an Unbounded Digital World

This collaboration empowers Earth 2 to vastly improve on their existing inhouse multiplayer system and achieve the following:

– Scale high fidelity player avatars with complex physics interactions anywhere in the world, enabling users to explore, interact, and encounter various experiences across their  vast digital landscape.
– Support large-scale community-based minigames: Achieve never before seen levels of multiplayer inside a world-scale replication, 
This partnership signifies a significant step forward for the evolution of the metaverse, paving the way for unprecedented levels of scalability, performance, and immersive player experiences within a supermassive and geographically-accurate digital reality.

“Earth 2’s ambition to build a hyper-realistic, interactive digital Earth aligns perfectly with our vision of powering the next internet. Our HyperScale Engine is uniquely positioned to help drive Earth 2’s vision for the most immersive 1:1 replica of the earth, including all of the potential immersive and realistic qualities that inhabitants will experience within this metaverse. The scale and fidelity of this experience needs to be unprecedented for game worlds and simulations and we are excited to build this new reality together with the Earth 2 team. This partnership is exciting because it pushes the boundaries of what’s possible in a shared, persistent online world.”

Rashid Mansoor, CEO & Founder of MetaGravity
“Throughout 2023 Earth 2 quietly worked on our own multiplayer system, designed to facilitate group experiences for Players inside Earth 2 Version 1 (E2V1) during the pre-alpha phase. During this time we  maintained contact with some of the more known network solution providers in the gaming space to ensure we were in touch and ready for the integration of any cutting-edge technology as it became available. 

Without becoming complacent, we also monitored the space for new faces in the industry when MetaGravity emerged to us late last year as a beacon of innovation, immediately capturing our attention with their groundbreaking networking solutions.

The brilliance of Rash and the MetaGravity team is evident in their unique approach to concurrent massive multiplayer and spatial online gaming. Collaborating with individuals ranging from their top-level executives to every member of their team has been a revelation, as we discovered a collective of highly skilled and forward-thinking individuals dedicated to achieving the pinnacle of multiplayer networking.

This newly formed partnership heralds an exciting chapter for Earth 2, as we join forces with MetaGravity to push the boundaries with their Hyperscale Engine in our massive, open and seamless 1:1 scale pristine version of the planet Earth.”

Shane Isaac, CEO & Founder of Earth 2


Earth 2 is thrilled to announce our official attendance of GDC 2024 which will include public access to a build of Earth 2 Version 1 (E2V1) for people to play with. In conjunction with MetaGravity, Earth 2 will have a booth demoing E2V1 between Meta and Unity in the main entrance and busiest section of the exposition. 


E2V1


The main focus of the E2V1 build at GDC is to demonstrate that we have in fact developed the foundations of a seamless 1:1 scale digital Earth – and what better place to show this than at the global game industry’s premier annual event.

People will have the freedom to navigate the 510,072,000km2 digital Earth, zoom in and out from and to anywhere in the world, from space down to flowers and grass all seamlessly in real time. 

Though still in a very early stage, the core purpose of showcasing E2V1 at GDC is to demonstrate how we have successfully developed the early foundations for the digital Earth we set out to build from the very beginning. The digital Earth we will be working with MetaGravity to Hyperscale its multiplayer capabilities.

In addition to this already impressive piece of foundational software, we are also going to include a few other things in the demonstration, all in real time :

ability to move anywhere in free camera mode
ability to spawn avatar anywhere
ability to toggle avatars
ability to spawn and use cars, boats, Cydroids and the jet spaceship
ability to show and hide the grid, including flags and ownership
ability to change atmospheric density and colour tint 
ability to initiate satellite overlay anywhere in the world
ability to enable fish, spawn campfires, enable fog, depth of field and so forth
teleportation to over 20 various biomes
ability to change seasons
ability to change wave levels
ability to change day cycles
target practice mini game with rifle and rocket launcher with scores
E-ther mini game with scores
plus a whole bunch of other little things, but most importantly the ability to spawn beach balls!
If you happen to be in San Francisco, or attending the GDC event, be sure to come visit the Earth 2 booth and MetaGravity at Stand S927, right between Meta and Unity – you can’t miss it! 

GDC, which stands for the Game Developers Conference, is the game industry’s premier professional event. It brings together game developers and advances their craft through education, inspiration, and networking.



June 23, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to introduce the Earth 2 Land Upgrade system, powered by Essence ($ESS). This article is being released prior to deployment in order to give Players some time to understand the basics around how the system will work. At first glance it is a simple system which importantly requires Essence ($ESS), or a combination of Essence plus an energy type, to infuse your land with a sudden burst of power through the Mentar resulting in a permanent upgrade to that property. However, the careful design of this system creates a number of key variables which Players will need to take into consideration.

Increased Utility for $ESS and the Land Upgrade System Introduction
Essence ($ESS) already has a number of important Utility cases on the Earth 2 platform, such as:

– Building Cydroids
– Powering Cydroids
– Crafting Jewels
– Voting
– Staking on Resource Claims
– Staking on Yellow Energy Claims
Over coming weeks, months and years, Earth 2 plans to continue expanding on the Utility of Essence, ultimately increasing its usefulness and purpose inside of Earth 2. The Land Upgrade system is the first of many such examples, and will provide a Utility where the Essence utilised is not only spent, but will also introduce a new burn mechanism.

The amount of Essence or Energy required to upgrade land is determined by two major factors: the popularity or demand for land within a country or territory which is reflected by the New Land Price (NLP), and the external trading price of Essence. These two main factors should be taken into consideration when upgrading your land in order to determine whether it is a good time for you to upgrade, or not, in a specific country.

While some locations may be ripe for upgrades based on the  externally traded price of Essence, once the Land Upgrade System officially comes online many locations may take months or in some cases years before a Player may consider the upgrade viable or beneficial. 

Another important factor to consider is the varying popularity of land within a country or territory after upgrades are initiated by Players, as these upgrades can directly affect the NLP of each Tier by causing it to rise or fall as the numbers of tiles allocated to each Tier is automatically adjusted as a result of each upgrade. This means the NLP can increase or decrease depending on the collective upgrade activity from Players.

As part of a special campaign celebrating the Land Upgrade System, the first 25,000 tiles of each upgrade method (collectively 125,000), upgrading from Tier 2 to Tier 1 using one of the 5 upgrade methods available (Essence alone, Essence + Red Energy, Essence + Yellow Energy, Essence + Blue energy and Essence + Green energy), per country, will receive a permanent 5x boosted base E-ther spawn on their newly upgraded Tier 1 Special property. For the record, the base E-ther spawn rate equals whatever the spawn rate is on T2 land. Once these special boost upgrades have been allocated, all subsequent T2 to T1 upgrades will proceed as normal.

To learn more about this unique and dynamic system, please continue reading.

The Land Tier Upgrade System & What It Means For Landowners
The Land Tier Upgrade system is a dynamic system that will allow Landowners to upgrade the ‘Tier’ attribute of their virtual land in order to unlock or access the benefits that higher Land Tiers may bring. It is important to understand the benefits and restrictions of each Land Tier, as well as the costs associated with upgrading, in order to determine whether upgrading is suitable for you and your unique virtual land ownership experience. There may be cases where higher Tiers are not always worth upgrading to at certain times based on the Tier attributes and the upgrade costs so please check the following Tier attributes table and continue reading to find out more. 

Tier 1	Tier 2	Tier 3
Description	High Tier	Base Tier, Mid-Level Tier	Entry-Level Tier
Purchase Method	Unavailable for Direct purchase from Earth 2 Map since July, 2023 (using RE)
Available for P2P trading via the Marketplace	Available through direct purchase from Earth 2 Map or P2P trading via the Marketplace	Available through direct purchase within Player-released Territories from Earth 2 Map or P2P trading via the Marketplace
Upgrade Method	Upgrade not available – already at highest Tier	Upgradeable to T1 or T1 Special (limited availability)	Upgradeable to T2
Land Classes	Class 1 to 5	None	None
Base E-ther Detection Capability	Yes. Hosts a fully-developed Mentar.
Filling maximum Jewel slots will unlock 100% potential detection.	Yes. Hosts a semi-developed Mentar.
Filling maximum Jewel slots will unlock 100% potential detection.	None. Hosts an underdeveloped Mentar called a SEED.
Base E-ther Evaporation	Extracted directly from the tiles by a fully-developed Mentar at approximately 3x the base spawn rate.
Stable for 24 hours, disappears by 96 hours.
Slotting Jewels with special boosts can increase evaporation.	Extracted directly from the tiles by a semi-developed Mentar at the base spawn rate.
Stable for 24 hours, disappears by 96 hours.
Slotting Jewels with special boosts can increase evaporation.	None. 
Boosted E-ther Evaporation	Yes 	Yes 	Not applicable. The SEED attracts unclaimed E-ther from the Boosted E-ther Pool of the same country (read more) Stable for 24 hours, disappears by 96 hours.
E-ther to Essence Conversion	Yes	Yes	Yes
Discoverable Resources	Yes	Yes	Yes
Accessible Resources	All (32 Resources)	Restricted (22 Resources)	Inaccessible
Jewel Spawn	Maximum Spawn	Random Spawn	No Spawn
Mentar Jewel Slots	5+ Slots	3 Slots	0 Slots
Cydroid Tethering	Yes	Yes	Yes
Cydroid Build Capability	Yes	Yes	No
Civilian Hosting	Yes	Yes	No
Civilian Synthesis	Yes	Yes	No
Raid Capability	Full	Full	Restricted based on target property size and Cydroid Rarity (read more)
Billboard Ads	Yes	No	No
Lobby Ads	Yes – Requires Broadcasting	Yes – Requires Broadcasting	Yes – but reduced when compared to T2 and requires Broadcasting
Broadcasting Ads	Yes – Requires Occurence Units	Yes – Requires Occurence Units	Yes* – Requires Occurence Units*T3 cannot yield O.Us directly the only way to obtain O.Us on T3 land is through P2P Trading or transferring O.Us via the future logistics system
In addition to the benefits and restrictions illustrated in the above Tier comparison table above, the function of upgrading land in itself involves important restrictions to be aware of:

Land may only be upgraded, never downgraded; 
Land may only be upgraded 1 Tier at a time; and
Upgrade Order
T3 -> T2
T2 -> T1
Tier 1 is the highest upgrade possible. 
Impact on New Land Price (NLP)

The Land Upgrade system will set in motion dynamic changes to the NLP of every Tier of land in Earth 2. As tiles transition from a lower tier to a higher one, the total number of tiles in each tier will change following each upgrade. This can and will affect the rise and fall of NLPs for the first time ever in each Tier within the same territory (T3) and country (T1 and T2) as tiles are upgraded from one Tier to another. The constant fluctuations of NLPs for each Tier, as well as the external trade price of Essence will provide an array of various strategies and opportunities related to land acquisition. 

The Land Upgrade Cooldown Feature

A number of our Players were concerned about competition and bots being used for land upgrades. For this reason, our team developed a cooldown feature that will be activated for the first 48 hours after the Land Upgrade system is released. The cooldown period will be set to 5 minutes for the first 48 hours and will be applied per country. This means once you upgrade a T2 or T3 property inside a specific country, you will not be able to upgrade another T2 or T3 property inside that country for another 5 minutes. You may, however, upgrade T2 or T3 properties in other countries while you wait, subject to the same cooldown rules.

After 48 hours, the cooldown timer will be reduced to 10 seconds or otherwise completely removed.

The Land Upgrade Essence Burn Mechanism

For every  Essence used by Players to upgrade their properties, 50% will be transferred to the Earth 2 Treasury and 50% will be permanently burned. These burns will take place at various intervals and can be validated via the official smart contract. We may also post about burns on social media to keep Players up to date.

Tier 1 Classes – A World of Opportunity

Upgrading from Tier 2 to Tier 1 is not just a simple upgrade. Upgrading to Tier 1 means that your property will adopt the Tier 1 class based on the number of Tier 1 tiles currently owned in the country at the time of upgrading, contributing to the total supply for that class. 

Class Benefits (Tier 1 ONLY)
Occurrence Units	Yes, higher classes get higher resource saturation
EPLs	Class 1, 701+ Tiles: 4 CharactersClass 1, 601-700 Tiles: 5 CharactersClass 1, 451-600 Tiles: 6 CharactersAll other classes and tile property sizes: 7+ Characters
Upgrade Methods– Essence and Energy 

The amount of Essence and Energy (if using Energy) required to upgrade your property to a higher Tier is calculated differently depending on whether there is a positive or negative price gap between the Tiers you are upgrading to and from. It is important to note that presently Red and Yellow Energy have been released on the Earth 2 platform, other energy types such as Green and Blue will be acquireable through other methods at a future date.

Example image shows a positive price gap between Tier 2 and Tier 1. 

When there is a positive price gap between the current Tier and the Tier you are upgrading to (typical scenario), the formula used to calculate the upgrade cost is based on the NLPs of each Tier:

Upgrade Cost (Tier 2 to Tier 1) = ((T1 NLP – T2 NLP) * No. of Tiles Upgraded) / Essence Fx USD Rate

EXAMPLE ONLY: 

If Essence = E$0.50 , T1 NLP = E$0.11 . T2 NLP = E$0.10 , Property Size = 182 Tiles

Example Upgrade Cost = ((E$0.11 – E$0.10) * 182) / E$0.50

= 3.64 Essence (approx. E$1.82) 

Example image shows a negative price gap between Tier 2 and Tier 1. 

When there is a negative price gap between the current Tier and the Tier you are upgrading to (atypical scenario), the formula used to calculate the upgrade cost is based on the number of tiles you are upgrading: 

Upgrade Cost (Tier 2 to Tier 1) = No. of Tiles Upgraded * 0.1 Essence 

Upgrade Cost (Tier 3 to Tier 1) = No. of Tiles Upgrade * 0.03 Essence

EXAMPLE ONLY: 

If Essence = E$0.50 , T1 NLP = E$0.15 . T2 NLP = E$15.25 , Property Size = 182 Tiles

Example Upgrade Cost = 182 * 0.1 

= 18.2 Essence (approx. E$9.10) 

To see how much your T2 and T3 properties cost to upgrade, go to your portfolio or property detail page and select the ‘UPGRADE’ button. 

The current ‘View Only’ Land Upgrade interface will display the upgrade cost based on current NLPs for positive price gaps. For negative price gaps, there is no example cost provided as the official external price for Essence is not yet connected.. Players may check potential cost scenarios using the editable data field for hypothetical Essence rate conversions:

The amount of Essence required to upgrade tiles can be partially subsidised using Energy as a substitute for some of the Essence. The total Energy discount capacity (how much of the total upgrade cost can be subsidised using Energy) is dependent on the tier of land that is currently being upgraded from: 

T3 to T2	60%
T2 to T1	30%
Note that the discount capacity is shown in percentages. Players may choose a discount percentage lower than the capacity depending on how much Energy they have in their balance.  As the external trade price of Essence varies, so too will the amount of Energy required to subsidise the Essence cost to upgrade, which is why the discount capacity is set as a percentage rather than a set price. 

A Special Upgrade-to-T1 Campaign: Boost Your Experience 

To celebrate the new Land Upgrade system we will be running a special Upgrade-to-T1 Campaign. This event will give a unique and special permanent 5x boost to the base E-ther spawn on the first 25,000 Tier 2 properties upgraded to Tier 1, per country, per energy type upgrade method: 

This means that 25,000 special boost tiles are allocated per Essence, and Essence + Energy upgrade method in each country, totalling 125,000 tiles per country. If upgrading using Essence PLUS an Energy, the full Energy discount capacity (30%) must be used to be eligible for the event. Upgrades which use only the partial but not the full (i.e. <30%) discount capacity will not be eligible for the special boost.

By checking the Land Upgrade interface, you will immediately be able to see if upgrading your property will result in a Special Tier 1 property, indicated by the Special Tier 1 icon and gold text colour: 

You will also be able to check how many Special Tier 1 tiles are still available for allocation for each of the upgrade methods:

It is very important to note that if, for example, there are only 100 Special Tier 1 tiles available for the ‘Only Essence’ upgrade method but you are upgrading a Tier 2 property with 500 tiles, using this upgrade method is still possible but will not result in a Special Tier 1 upgraded property with access to the 5x boosted E-ther spawn boost. So be sure to check the number of Special Tier 1 tiles that are available for the property size and upgrade method you are hoping to use before proceeding.  

This special Upgrade-to-T1 campaign is only applicable to Tier 2 to Tier 1 upgraded tiles and applies regardless of the positive or negative price gap scenario between Tier 2 and Tier 1 NLPs. However if upgrading in a negative price gap scenario (i.e. Tier 2 NLP is higher than Tier 1 NLP) only the ‘Essence Only’ upgrade option is available.    

The Land Upgrade Function

To access the Land Upgrade interface (currently in View Only mode) simply navigate to the Portfolio page or the Property Info page . Upon selecting the ‘UPGRADE’ button, you’ll be presented with detailed information regarding the cost to upgrade your property, the benefits of the upgrade, and even potential discounts available for your upgrade.

Land Upgrade Interface (View Only state)

Selecting the ‘?’ tooltip will reveal the benefits of upgrading the selected property, for your convenience.

Benefits of upgrading from Tier 2 to Tier 1

If using a combination of Essence and Energy to upgrade your land, the amount of Essence and Energy required is automatically calculated based on the external trade price of Essence and the amount of Essence you wish you to discount (maximum discount rates dependent on the Tier of land you are upgrading from). 

To check the Energy discount calculation in the current ‘View Only’ state, simply enter a hypothetical Essence conversion rate price in the input data field. 

While this new system will remain in a View Only state until Essence is externally tradeable, Players may use the interactable Essence to USD value conversion tool to test out various price scenarios for the properties they are hoping to upgrade, in preparation for what the price of Essence and the consequent upgrade costs may be. 

Land Upgrade Slippage

We have allowed for up to 1% positive slippage when upgrading land. This means that in the case of Land Price volatility, the charged amount may be up to 1% higher than the price shown to you in the upgrade screen. The purpose for this slippage is to avoid excessive upgrade failures, especially in popular areas at various times.

If the price increases more than 1%, the upgrade will fail and you can try again.

It is important to note that this slippage system only applies to a cost increase, if the charged amount is lower than shown the upgrade will always go through.

The same applies for special Campaign tiles, if T1 Special Campaign tiles run out before you confirm your upgrade, the upgrade will fail and you will need to try again.

Elevate Your Earth 2 Journey

The Land Tier Upgrade system will provide Players – specifically Landowners- the ability to control their journey and explore the potential benefits of this upcoming upgrade system. 

Please remember that the Land Tier Upgrade system is currently still in a view-only state. As many from our community already know, the external trading of Essence is now live, but even though we have implemented a cooldown timer, there will be no countdown for the Land Upgrade system, it could come online at any time and without warning to avoid parts of our website potentially crashing due to high demand. The only guidelines we can provide our community is that it is scheduled to come online any day this week at a time between 8am-2pm UTC when our devs and QA are on standby.

In the meantime, you can continue preparing to upgrade your properties by raiding to earn E-ther (for Essence) and Red Energy, or create meaningful Earth 2 related content to earn Yellow Energy (read more about YE here)! 

Join the journey and shape the future. Earth 2, the People’s Metaverse.

Earth 2 to Expand $ESS Utility via the cosmetic Skin Store
June 29, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is thrilled to announce another new addition to the utility of Essence ($ESS) through the introduction of the ability to purchase selected skins from the Earth 2 Skin Store. This development aligns with Earth 2’s long-term vision to expand the utility and purpose of Essence within the Earth 2 platform. It also rewards Players holding Essence on the platform as they will gain access to exclusive deals, unique items, and more, often at discounted prices.

The importance of customisable appearances in gaming is well-established. It allows Players to express their identity, emotions, and even indulge in a form of escapism by adopting different personas while standing out from the crowd. The gaming skin industry alone is valued at a staggering $50 billion. In the Metaverse, where social interaction, creativity, and individuality are paramount, the ability to alter one’s virtual appearance is even more critical. Custom-created by our concept artists and 3D team, including community submitted designs, Earth 2 Skins provide the ideal solution for enhancing Player’s metaverse experience into a more immersive, unique and memorable one.

As outlined in our Whitepaper, Earth 2 has also designed a system that supports the adaptive value of Essence at various times and places. We are pleased to announce that this system will be applied to certain items in the Earth 2 Skin Store, meaning $ESS holders who purchase skins will sometimes be able to acquire those skins at lower, more attractive prices. 

Three Types of Skin Listings

Under this new system, there will be three types of skin listings available in the Earth 2 Skin Store:

$ESS Exclusive Listings
The first category includes skins that can only be purchased with $ESS. These exclusive listings will not be available for purchase with E$. There will be two sub-categories within these listings:

Prices tied to the external USD value of $ESS – in this case a USD value will be set for the item and linked to the external trading price of $ESS meaning the $ESS amount could fluctuate based on external trading behaviour.
A Predetermined price of $ESS set by Earth 2 – in this case Earth 2 will set a static $ESS price for the item, not a set USD price, meaning that irrespective of the external trading price the $ESS amount will be fixed.
Hybrid Listings ($ESS and E$)
The second category features hybrid listings, allowing purchases with either $ESS or E$. For these skins, two separate purchase options will be available: one using $ESS and the other using E$. For instance, in a Limited Edition Skin release of 500 units, 450 units might be available, with 225 units listed in $ESS and 225 in E$. This ratio is flexible and can be adjusted, such as 100 units in $ESS and 325 in E$, or 400 units in $ESS and 25 in E$.

E$ Exclusive Listings
The third category is the traditional E$ only listings. This familiar listing style will continue to be available for many skins. However, exclusive E$ skins will often cost more when compared to $ESS skins, as $ESS skins will frequently, but not always, be offered at a discount specially for $ESS holders.

Closing Thoughts
The $50 billion cosmetic skin industry is massive and Earth 2’s introduction of $ESS as a purchasing option for its custom-made skins marks a significant step in expanding the utility of $ESS, not only in the short-term but also in the long-term. 

In addition to this initiative enhancing the utility of $ESS, it also provides Players holding $ESS with greater flexibility and exclusive opportunities within the Earth 2 platform. By allowing purchases with $ESS, Earth 2 will at times provide an opportunity for participating Players to acquire items at a potentially lower USD value, making it an attractive option for those who hold $ESS and want to secure such items when they become available. 

To celebrate the launch of this new feature, Earth 2 will be setting static prices on SOME selected skins at a rate of $0.15USD per $ESS. This would mean a E$15.00 skin would be sold for 100 $ESS.  It is important to remember that some skins will still be listed in E$.

Keep an eye out for our next skin drop if you’d like to pick up a few special skins for the very first time ever using $ESS!

Hint: If you’d like to deposit your $ESS back into the Earth 2 Platform to purchase items like skins, please login to your free Earth 2 account and follow the instructions on the Settings page.

Historic Day for Earth 2: Unprecedented Spending and Utility of $ESS
June 30, 2024 – Sydney, Australia- Earth 2 players have showcased remarkable engagement with the platform, spending over 12 million Essence on the first day of the Earth 2 Land Upgrade system launch on Tuesday, June 25, 2024. The exact amount, 12,257,101.6727 $ESS, equates to an impressive $1,041,853.64 USD based on the current externally traded price. This marks the largest single-day spending on land alone since early 2021 and provides a glimpse at the robustness of $ESS utility within the Earth 2 ecosystem.

A Milestone for $ESS Utility
As outlined in the Earth 2 Whitepaper, the platform has created a system that often interlinks with the externally traded value of Essence. The substantial spending of Essence on land upgrades demonstrates the growing importance and practicality of $ESS in the Earth 2 metaverse. This surge in utility not only reflects the increasing confidence of Players in the future of Earth 2 and of Essence, but also highlights Earth 2’s innovative approach in creating a vibrant and engaging digital economy.

Special Celebration: Double Burn of $ESS
According to the tokenomics outlined in the Earth 2 Whitepaper, 50% of the $ESS spent on land upgrades is to be burned, while the remaining 50% is to be allocated to the Treasury. However, to commemorate the successful launch of the Land Upgrade system, Earth 2 has decided to burn its rightful share of the $ESS as well. This means an additional 6,133,105.8363 $ESS, equivalent to $520,926.82 USD, will be burned.

Therefore, 12,257,101.6727 $ESS, over 1.2% of the Maximum Supply of 1 billion, will be burned during this event!

This special gesture not only enhances the scarcity of $ESS, but also shows Earth 2’s continued commitment to rewarding its community, landowners and $ESS holders.

The Impact of Land Upgrades
The introduction of the Land Upgrade system has allowed Players to unlock more utility and performance on their properties, creating more potential long term value and functionality within the Earth 2 platform. This new feature is a significant step forward and its immediate and enthusiastic adoption reflects the community’s readiness to embrace new opportunities within the platform as it evolves. 

Final Thoughts
The unprecedented spending of over 12 million Essence on the first day of the Land Upgrade system launch marks a historic moment for Earth 2. This event not only underscores the significant utility of $ESS but also demonstrates the strong engagement and commitment of the Earth 2 community. By burning an additional share of $ESS, Earth 2 has further solidified the value and scarcity of the $ESS utility token.

As Earth 2 continues to innovate and expand, the platform remains dedicated to providing its Players, land holders and $ESS holders, with unique opportunities. The success of the Land Upgrade system is a testament to the platform’s potential and the vibrant future that lies ahead. We thank our supporters for embracing these new developments and continuing to be a part of the evolving and dynamic world of Earth 2.


August 04, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is excited to announce several significant developments and features in this latest update. This article will delve into the new Mentar Staking system, provide background information on our first upcoming E2V1 mini-game, Earth 2 Hordes, and explain its connection to the Mentar Staking system. Additionally, we will discuss important updates on the withdrawal process, including details on the Trial Withdrawal system set to launch next week.

Our long-term vision to build a geolocational metaverse encompassing resources, trading, building, socialising, commerce, experiences, conflict, gaming, and more remains unwavering. Our approach to building this metaverse is reflected in the way we have consistently released features and products while simultaneously advancing core technology for the 3D interactive world.

We are committed to achieving our goals through a series of progressive steps, each made publicly available to our Players in stages. These steps are designed to be beneficial and engaging for our Players and supporters. Instead of developing behind closed doors, we choose to involve our community, offering potential rewards as we advance this long-term project.

Mentar Staking
The Mentar Staking system is an exciting new feature that not only has the potential to boost the productivity of your property but will also play a pivotal role in our first mini-game, Earth 2 Hordes. The option to stake can be found on your profile page via the MENTAR STAKING button. 

Players will have the option to supercharge their Mentar by staking Essence, effectively setting it up as a beacon that can attract creatures and beasts to your property. The types and numbers of creatures attracted will vary depending on the size of your property and the amount of Essence you stake.

How It Works
Attracted by the centralised power source of Essence inside the Mentar, creatures and beasts are drawn into a mission of self-sacrifice to pay homage to the property owner. Once they reach the Mentar, they will begin a process of dissolution, essentially de-synthesising their life force back into E-ther, which is then absorbed by the Mentar and bound to the staked Essence for the property owner to claim.

Factors Influencing Essence Strength
The strength of the Essence depends on several factors, including the size of the property, the Tier group, and the duration of time the owner has committed their Essence to the Mentar. Players may stake up to 2 Essence per tile and can choose durations of 10, 30, 60, and 90 days.

Potential Rewards
Depending on the options selected, there is the potential to attract anywhere from 0.4% to 158% extra E-ther compared to the base E-ther spawn rate that those tiles would usually receive. Generally, smaller properties attract less, and larger properties attract more due to the amount of Essence the Mentar can hold.

It is important to note that higher Tier properties have a higher base E-ther spawn rate. Although the percentage increase in attracted E-ther may sometimes be lower for higher Tier properties, the actual number of extra E-ther attracted is greater. Tier 3 properties do not have a Mentar and therefore cannot stake Essence via this system.

When you stake Essence, it will lock the tiles it is staked to meaning the property is also locked. Properties that are actively for sale on the Market Place will be automatically excluded when staking Essence to avoid a Player locking a property they already have for sale. Tiles locked for staking also cannot be upgraded through the duration of the staking period.

Claiming E-ther
The E-ther attracted by staked Essence in the Mentar will remain attached to the staked Essence until the Player collects it. It is usually detected and becomes claimable around midnight UTC after the first full day of being staked. Importantly, attracted E-ther cannot be raided by other Players and does not evaporate. It can be collected in the same pop up modal you use to claim your standard E-ther and Resources.

Future Adjustments and Use Cases
The Mentar Staking system may be adjusted over time, and we may introduce different utility cases. It is important to remember that Earth 2 is an emerging platform, a work in progress that is constantly in development. New features like the Mentar Staking system indicate that there will be new use cases and utility for Essence over time.

Therefore, the Essence a Player thinks they have just sitting around doing nothing right now will possibly have a purpose and use for them at some point in the future.

Transferring Essence from Web3 to an Earth 2 Account
Players can deposit Essence from their Web3 wallet into their Earth 2 account by following these steps:

Connect Wallet:
– Log in to your Earth 2 account.
– Go to the Settings page.
– Connect your Metamask wallet from which you are sending the Essence to your Earth 2 account.
Transfer Essence:
– Transfer the desired amount of Essence to the Main Earth 2 wallet.
Automated Credit:
– Once the transfer is complete, the system will automatically credit your Earth 2 account with the transferred Essence.
– It is strongly advised not to disconnect your wallet until you confirm that your account has been credited with the transferred Essence.
For additional information, log in to your Earth 2 account, navigate to the Settings page, connect your wallet, and click on the DEPOSIT option.

Earth 2 Hordes Mini-game
Earth 2 is thrilled to lock in its first planned mini-game experience within E2V1, Earth 2 Hordes. This mini-game is directly linked to the Mentar Staking system. Properties with staked Essence in their Mentars will attract various Hordes of beasts and creatures from within E2V1. These creatures are on a self-sacrificial mission to reach the Mentar and de-synthesise back into E-ther, which is then bound to the staked Essence inside the Mentar until claimed by the property owner.

Attracting Larger Hordes

The more Essence staked in the Mentar, the higher the chance of attracting larger and more powerful Hordes including larger creatures and beasts. Players can stake up to 2 Essence per tile, meaning larger properties with more staked Essence will have a greater potential to attract significant Hordes given they have a larger coverage area. 

Co-Op PvE Game Mechanics

Earth 2 Hordes will be a Co-Op PvE game (Cooperative Player versus Environment). The game loop begins with Players entering a lobby system to find an available game. Once a game is found, Players are spawned onto the property just before an incoming Horde is activated. The goal of the units in the Horde is to take out anything standing in their way before they get to the Mentar and begin de-synthesising into the E-ther which is then attracted to the charged Essence in the Mentar. 

Player Objectives

The goal for the Players is to set up a forcefield-like shield around the Mentar and intercept the Horde units with the aim of de-synthesising them before they reach the Mentar, while ensuring the Players remain alive.

Acquiring Weapons and Abilities

Players start each mini-game unarmed, relying on their bare hands and feet. Weapons and abilities can be acquired through drops from defeated Horde units, completing tasks, or finding loot and objects. These weapons and abilities will help Players compete against subsequent waves of Horde units.

Creature Variety 

Depending on the property’s size and its Tier, as well as the amount and duration of staked Essence, the Mentar can attract a range of creatures. These can vary from small wildlife that Players may easily capture to more formidable beings such as Skeleton Warriors, Zombies, Rock Golems, Mech Units, Dragons, and even Red Coat Soldiers wielding mini-guns, which may pose a more significant challenge. 

Property Size and Player Participation

The size of the property and its Tier, along with the amount and duration of staked Essence, also influences the types of creatures attracted. The property size also determines the number of Players that can participate in a single Earth 2 Hordes mini-game, with smaller properties hosting fewer Players.

Ongoing Development

The Earth 2 team is still finalising various design elements for the mini-game, including how landowners could benefit. Potential features we are confident that will be involved are the Broadcaster and the ability for landowners to control aspects of the rewards Players receive by playing on their property. While some details may change as development progresses, above all, the most important goal is to ensure the game loop is fun and entertaining.

Quote from the Founder of Earth 2, Shane Isaac

“Earth 2 is a Metaverse platform, and true to the Metaverse concept, it does not adhere to any specific genre. This is something I love about Earth 2, as it gives us a lot of fun and freedom when designing games and experiences,” said Shane Isaac, CEO and Founder of Earth 2.

“After play-testing the E-ther Particle mini-game, it became clear that while it served a purpose in testing multiplayer networking and elicited a few laughs, it had limited engagement and lacked the potential for a long-term shelf life. It’s important to understand and accept where we are in our development; it is too early for competitive PvP in Earth 2, especially when rewards have monetary value, we need to get other aspects right first,” Shane went on to say.

“Although designing and developing a multiplayer co-op PvE game like Earth 2 Hordes is significantly more complex, I believe it is a better starting point. We need to focus on game design with a higher potential for ongoing fun and engagement, which is what people want to play. Game mechanics developed in Earth 2 Hordes will also serve as a precursor to us implementing random discoverable NPC units while exploring the open world.”

“Earth 2 Hordes will not only allow us to progressively test our multiplayer networking solution at a realistic scale but also provide opportunities to test avatar movement, animations, syncing, combat, NPC movement, and AI. Pre-baking a 510,072,000 km² map that also needs to be geologically accurate presents major challenges so you need dynamic nav-mesh systems functioning not only for avatars but also for NPCs within this massive open world. Developing and testing these systems in a mini-game like Earth 2 Hordes is extremely valuable for the long-term success of the project and will allow us to gradually implement game mechanics we plan to open up to landowners for the purpose of creating their own games or experiences on their properties.”

“Presently our focus is on Earth 2 Hordes, but I am excited about the future of Earth 2 and the possibilities it holds. We could go from Earth 2 Hordes to golf, racing, capture the flag, Easter Egg hunts, skiing, modern warfare, base jumping, building, and trading—all within the open world of E2V1, and that is without even touching on the Earth 2 Portal concept.”

Trial Withdrawal System
Earth 2 has invested over $600,000 USD in processing fiat withdrawals, covering costs such as KYC, accountants, processing fees, and other requirements essential for facilitating a global payment system. This significant expenditure underscores the importance Earth 2 places on its withdrawal system and the service it provides to Players. When interruptions arise, finding solutions becomes a top priority.

Periodic updates have been provided on withdrawal delays. Unofficially, it has been indicated that access to a crucial third-party provider, integral to our withdrawal system, was jeopardised due to the launch of Essence as a token and recent regulatory implications. We received no warning from the provider prior to this happening. 

Navigating Complications and Adapting

The official launch of the Essence token was always going to risk new complications, given the changing compliance requirements across different jurisdictions and the challenges banks and service providers face in adapting. Navigating both Web3 and fiat environments inherently carries risks, but our community’s desire for a tradable token necessitated this step. When issues arise, we must be ready to adapt and find viable solutions.

While interruptions are often unavoidable and nobody likes them, the most important part is for us as a business to be as resourceful as possible and find a solution to those interruptions. 

Contingency Plans and Reactions

To that extent, part of our messaging has been that no matter what, we would look at and work on all contingency plans, even if temporary, within the framework we have available to us and focus on which is the fastest, most plausible option to get withdrawals back on track.

Full Circle Web3 System  

Following the token release and changing global regulations, it became evident that relying solely on the fiat system is impractical if we wish to reduce potential interruptions and operate effectively in Web3. Therefore, it would be imperceptive not to implement a full circle Web3 system, even for a rainy day, as not only would such a system give us better control without the need to rely on external third party service providers, but from what we have experienced to date, it would also significantly reduce the withdrawal costs for our Players. 

Trial System for Withdrawals

Considering these factors, we have decided to trial an internal system, which is optional, allowing Players to withdraw their backlogged E$ withdrawals into Essence, based on the external trading price of Essence. While we continue to work on other fiat solutions, these will take time, especially with the live token that third-party providers must now consider. This trial system is the fastest, most plausible option we can control directly without relying on third-party contracts and approvals.

To be clear, Earth 2 remains committed to supporting a fiat withdrawal system, but this may require time. Therefore, we aim to provide our customers with an alternative option in the interim. 

It is also important to note that a number of Players have actively requested this option from us.

Key Points of the New System:

Players with pending withdrawals will be contacted by our support team or accounting team notifying them of this option. On occasion they may receive a notification on the platform via the notification system. However, our team will endeavour to send an email as well.
This option will be carried out in order of oldest requests to newest.
Once contacted, the Player will see an option appear on their withdrawal page providing them with the opportunity to receive their existing E$ withdrawal as  Essence.
It is completely optional, and the Player can decide whether or not they want to accept this alternative over a period of about 5 days.
If after 5 days the Player has not accepted the option, then the button will no longer be available on their withdrawal page and they will need to wait until either the option becomes available again when the account team cycle through a second time,or if we finalise a solution for the fiat system.
During the 5 days, the Player is in control of when they execute the transaction. 
Once a Player executes the transaction, they will have ownership of the Essence on the platform and can utilise it for anything such as Mentar Staking, building Cydroids, crafting, Essence withdrawals,and so forth.
As the external value of Essence can fluctuate up or down, we suggest that if the Player plans to immediately withdraw their Essence transaction, that they do it on a weekday at least a few hours before 2 pm GMT+10 
There will be no charge to the Player for using this option to transact to Essence during the trial period.
Monitoring and Adjustments

This trial will be closely monitored, starting with a daily aggregated platform cap of E$5,000 and adjustments made as necessary. Elements such as, but not limited to, the five-day acceptance period may be modified based on observed results.

Future of Mentar Staking and the Trial System

The Mentar Staking system has been specifically developed, implemented and released ahead of schedule in order to reward Players holding Essence or acquiring more Essence. If this Trial Withdrawal System ceases to operate, the Mentar Staking system will also cease operating until such time that the Earth 2 Hordes Mini-game comes online. 

We would like to point out and reassure our community that the Trial Withdrawal System will be 100% funded by Essence from the Earth 2 Treasury. 

Feedback and Communication

If you have any feedback about this update, please do not hesitate to reach out to us directly via trialsystem@earth2.io. Please keep feedback or concerns focused only on this Withdrawal Trial System. We will keep this email open to receive any feedback for 3 weeks.


August 12, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 invites you to take a closer look at E2V1 with the official footage release from our GDC San Francisco 2024 showcase reel. E2V1 is a work in progress 1:1 scale, playable 3D digital version of our planet Earth being actively developed. This real-time, in-game footage offers an updated view of some of the vast and immersive qualities of E2V1 as we advance the development and refinement of its geologically accurate, massive open 510,072,000 km² map.

With a pre-alpha release planned for later this year, part of this footage highlights our progress on dynamic seasons, immersive day-night cycles, and an evolving biome system, all of which contribute to the realism of this expansive virtual environment. The video also showcases breathtaking draw distances, seamless transitions from surface to space, and global navigation.

E2V1 will feature pristine, untouched environments, programmatically cleared of man-made artefacts such as buildings, roads, and infrastructure. At the core of Earth 2 is Essence ($ESS), a tradeable resource that landowners have been actively mining from their land. Essence is set to become a key element in driving the economy and progression within the world. Among its many already existing and planned utilities, Essence will be essential for processing Resources into Raw Materials, allowing players to maximise the utility of their land and play an active role in not only shaping the future, but becoming part of it.

In other exciting news, we’re actively designing and integrating our first mini-game into E2V1, Earth 2 Hordes, which will also require Essence to activate and provide an additional layer of utility and engagement to Player owned properties. Mini-games like Earth 2 Hordes will help our team to test various game mechanics and our multiplayer system as we move forward onto developing other parts of the platform, so stay tuned for more updates!

We hope you enjoy this video, which provides a closer look at the ongoing development of E2V1. Although we are still in the early stages, we are excited to share this update as we continue to build and refine our geolocational metaverse, Earth 2.

August 28, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is excited to introduce the first look at wildlife to E2V1, inching the virtual world one step closer to our long term goal of a fully immersive experience. Our new team members have been hard at work behind the scenes, not just on wildlife but across several key areas of E2V1, ensuring that Earth 2 continues to develop and evolve.

As many know, E2V1 is a seamless 510,072,000 km² map, a 3D 1:1 scale geologically accurate representation of Earth. Creating a world of this magnitude presents unique challenges—you can’t simply pre-bake a world of this size. Our new team has been developing a dynamic navmesh system specifically for NPCs and other objects. This system is essential for bringing Earth 2 to life, allowing NPCs such as animals and other entities to use AI to navigate and interact with the environment around them inside this 510 million km2 map.

Recently we noticed a number of comments pointing out the lack of wildlife within E2V1. Coincidentally, our new team had already been focusing on a variety of initial animals to not only start the journey of wildlife inside Earth 2 but to help test various features being developed in parallel. These animals were sculpted, baked, and textured by our talented team before being brought to life to help test our new open world dynamic navmesh system being developed by the new team which is still a work in progress. 

In terms of the appearance of these animals, Earth 2 has aimed for a slightly stylised look that remains semi-realistic while balancing an optimised poly count. This balance allows us to maintain a visually appealing and immersive environment while ensuring performance efficiency.

But this is just the beginning. We are committed to expanding the variety of animals in Earth 2, and future updates will introduce even more species. Additionally, we’re exploring the possibility of allowing Players to control animals, effectively stepping into the role of these creatures and participating in the food chain or other experiences. We’re excited that this feature could open up entirely new gameplay dynamics, where Players could experience life as an animal within Earth 2 and for animals to be used as part of mini-games and Player owned property experiences.

Our new team isn’t just focused on wildlife and the navmesh system— they’re also actively developing Earth 2 Hordes, our first upcoming mini-game, enhancing multiplayer functionality, working on our initial avatar customisation tool, preparing for the E2V1 pre-alpha, and more. The introduction of wildlife is just one part of a broader long term commitment  to create a rich, dynamic world within Earth 2.

There is a LOT going on!

Looking ahead, we’re excited to share more in Wildlife in Earth 2 – Vol 2, where we’ll demonstrate the early AI we’re adding to wildlife. This will include behaviours like recognising their place in the food chain, deciding whether to fight or flee, foraging, and engaging in combat with both other animals and avatars.

Stay tuned as we continue to bring the world of Earth 2 to life one step at a time!


September 18, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is excited to share a very early look into its first combat mechanics with a video release and this article. While Earth 2 is envisioned as a multifaceted digital Metaverse with ambitions to encompass socialising, resource mining, building, trading, exploring, shopping and more, we believe a core element of our new incoming 3D experience should start with engaging gameplay that focuses on Players having fun first, but also importantly expands on the utility to Properties (Land), Essence, E-ther, Jewels, Cosmetics, and Resources.

As many in our community know, over the past three years, our team has been heavily focused on developing and implementing a massive open world solution that has the ability to deliver the geological accuracy required for the foundations of Earth 2’s 1:1 scale digital 3D Earth, E2V1. Geological accuracy was a non-negotiable, essential milestone we needed to fully develop first, especially due to the fact that Players have acquired land in correlating real-world locations via our 2D website map. 

This means we did not have the luxury to simply procedurally generate a random world which is why our initial 3D world development required extensive time and effort to ensure areas of our 510,072,000 km2 map geologically matched reality. Although time consuming and still very much a work in progress that will be iterated on and improved over time, we are now excitingly at a stage where the foundations now laid are ready to test the first steps toward engagement and gameplay inside our massive open 3D world.

Earth 2 Hordes: An Overview
Earth 2 Hordes is the first 3D mini-game experience scheduled for E2V1. Directly connected to the newly introduced Mentar Staking system, it is set to open a whole new level of utility to Land, Essence, Resources and more. In this co-op PvE experience, Players will be able to intercept hordes of creatures drawn to the staked Essence inside the Mentar on a property. 

To activate an Earth 2 Hordes game, you will need to own land and have Essence actively staked in the Mentar on that land. This will activate the mini-game and attract hordes of creatures to the property at a maximum frequency of once a day, depending on the size of the property and how much Essence is staked. 

Property owners will have the ability to invite friends and battle the hordes on their properties, or add their qualified properties to the global Earth 2 game network lobby system which will allow Players to queue for random pending upcoming games.

More details are scheduled about how this system will function, but it is worth noting that Earth 2 Hordes will link into future features, such as the “Broadcaster,” which will require Resource Occurrence Units to create, and then Essence to load into the Broadcaster to maximise the potential of advertisements.

In addition to the Broadcasting system, it is also worth noting that over time landowners will be able to set participation requirements, set prizes, set drop split percentages, create billboards and more.

For details previously disclosed about Earth 2 Hordes, please visit: 

https://earth2.io/news/mentar-staking-live

First Look at Combat Mechanics

The video provides a very early, unpolished preview of combat mechanics designed for Earth 2 Hordes with focus on the Katana, a weapon that Players will have the ability to arm their avatars with, unlocking a variety of combat manoeuvres and tactics.

Weapon Mechanics: The Katana
The Katana is just one of many weapons that will be available in Earth 2 Hordes, each with its own unique combat style. When players equip a weapon inside the mini-game, their avatar will adopt the specific combat animations that have been designed to complement the weapon’s playstyle.

Importantly, no specific cosmetic skin is required to wield the Katana; Players will have the ability to arm themselves with this weapon regardless of their character’s skin or appearance. 

For example, Anubis could pick up a Katana and start going ham.

Each weapon in Earth 2 Hordes will generally offer three special attacks and one ultra attack, most of which can be upgraded throughout the timeline of the mini-game.

In this footage, we showcase the recently released Murushierago skin and the Night’s Edge Katana, both custom-created by our 3D modelling team.

Katana Special Attacks
Dash and Slash: This special attack allows players to dash through enemies, delivering a swift slash. This move consumes stamina and can be upgraded to increase damage and critical strike chance.

Combo Strikes with Jump Attack: A sequence of combo strikes with the Katana that ends with a powerful jump attack, creating a shockwave dealing damage to enemy units within the shockwave radius. This move consumes stamina, and upgrades enhance damage, critical strike chances, and knock-back impact.

Sky Fall Strike: The Player leaps into the air and delivers a devastating concentrated strike with the Katana upon landing while also unleashing a powerful shockwave that damages nearby enemies. Upgrades increase both the damage and the knock-back radius of this attack.
While the ultra attack is not featured in this footage, it will be revealed in future releases or at the game’s launch.

Custom Animations and Visual Effects
Our animation team created the custom animations used for each special attack listed above, ensuring fluid and aesthetic combat action. The visual effects (VFX) for these special attacks are still under development, and we have plans to showcase more refined VFX in future updates. Additionally, while custom animations for basic movement with the Katana, such as normal and fast running, have been created by our team, some of the other animations are placeholders for basic attacks and we intend to customise the look and style of these basic attack moves with our own animations in the future.

Standard Katana Attacks
Standard attacks with the Katana have been programmed to vary in damage depending on the strike type and target, with certain strikes having the potential to trigger critical hits. This adds a layer of unpredictability and tactical depth to combat encounters and offers the Player rewarding results for upgrading different aspects of their Katana wielding ability.

Introducing the Skeleton Warrior
Players will face a variety of enemies in Earth 2 Hordes which will intentionally stem from different genres and art styles staying true to the concept of the Metaverse. For now, we have used the Skeleton Warrior as the primary enemy unit for play testing. Armed with an axe, it is likely this enemy will be one of the first Horde units that Players encounter in the mini-game. 

To provide our community with an idea on the type of work that goes into one basic enemy, here is some of the processes and work we’ve completed on the Skeleton Warrior so far : 

Concept Art Creation:

The concept art team designed the initial vision and visuals for the Skeleton Warrior, including detailed illustrations of its armour and weapon.

3D Modelling:

The 3D modelling team then transformed the concept art into a fully-realised 3D model, also creating the matching axe for the Skeleton Warrior.

Texturing:

Textures were applied to the Skeleton Warrior and its weapon by our artists, adding intricate details to give the model a lifelike appearance.

Rigging and Weight Painting:

The rigging team created a skeletal structure for the model, enabling dynamic movement. Weight painting was applied to ensure smooth and realistic animations.

Custom Animation Creation:

Our animators created a series of custom animations for the Skeleton Warrior, including:
Run
Walk forward
Walk left
Walk right
Walk backward
Turn left 90 degrees
Turn right 90 degrees
Idle
Receive damage
Death animation
Block
Attack 1
Attack 2
Running lunge attack

In-Game Integration:

Once the animations were complete, the game development team integrated the Skeleton Warrior model, weapon, and animations into the game engine, testing its movement and combat mechanics.

Combat AI Implementation:

The game dev team then implemented and refined combat AI for the Skeleton Warrior, allowing it to make tactical decisions such as attacking, dodging, blocking, and chasing Players during battle.

Navmesh Integration:

The Skeleton Warrior was then integrated and tested in the E2V1 open-world environment navigation mesh (navmesh) system, enabling it to dynamically navigate and interact with Players across the terrain inside E2V1.

Stat Assignments:

We also designed an early stats system which records key stats for the Skeleton Warrior to ensure balanced and challenging gameplay. These include:

Health Points (HP): Determines how much damage the Skeleton Warrior can take before being defeated.

Damage Output: Specifies how much damage the Skeleton Warrior inflicts with each of its attacks.

Attack Variations: Each attack, such as basic strikes or lunging attacks, has specific damage values. Different attack types are also assigned different ranges.

Critical Hit Chance: Some attacks may have a chance to deal extra damage through critical strikes.

Movement Speed: Determines how the default movement speed of the Skeleton Warrior.

Cooldown : Determines the interval between which various attacks and abilities can be utilised by the Skeleton Warrior.

Armour and Resistance: Defines the Skeleton Warrior’s ability to block or reduce incoming damage from the Player’s attacks.

Drop Item Chance:  Defines what type of items the Skeleton Warrior could drop and the chance rate of those drops.

https://youtu.be/Qaxjne2jW9I?si=5YnuABXkj9uyi9MZ

In the opening 1:1 combat scenario in the video you will note where the Skeleton Warrior blocks and dodges the Katana attacks from the avatar. The footage goes on to showcase other combat AI with the Skeleton Warrior using group tactics, including lunging attacks (dealing 60 HP damage), dodging, and engaging the Player in various terrain settings.

Message from Earth 2 Founder, Shane Isaac
“Building a geologically accurate 510,072,000 km² open 3D Earth is no small feat, but we have laid the foundations and are looking ahead. The combat mechanics we are currently designing, creating, and implementing not only matter for Earth 2 Hordes but will also be used throughout different areas of E2V1 long term. This includes things like the multiplayer system, character controllers, syncing, navigation mesh, animations, hotkeys, enemy units, enemy AI, health, mana, stamina, hunger, and many other systems needed to release a mini-game like Earth 2 Hordes. In the short term the development of these systems not only contributes to providing our Players with engaging experiences inside E2V1, but they also represent important progress we can and will use for future parts of the metaverse platform we’re building,” said Shane Isaac, Founder of Earth 2.

“The first enemy units, such as the Skeleton Warrior, are primarily being developed for Earth 2 Hordes, however, don’t rule out the possibility of encountering such units randomly while exploring the open world of E2V1 at some point.”

“Although it’s been challenging to manage alongside my other obligations, I’ve really enjoyed working on the game design for Earth 2 Hordes so far. My goal is not only to expand on the utility of Land, Essence, and Resources, but to ensure Earth 2 Hordes is a mini-game that’s fun to play and maybe offer a few laughs along the way—challenging and engaging but not too serious. Though it’s not part of the current footage, there is a specific feature I wanted which has already brought out a few chuckles during playtests, so I look forward to demoing that in future footage releases.”

Closing Thoughts
The Katana and Skeleton Warrior combat mechanics shown in this video represent a very early phase of combat for Earth 2 Hordes. It’s still very early in development, and while there’s a lot more to refine, we wanted to take this opportunity to explain and show our community some of what we’ve been working on. We appreciate your continued support and look forward to sharing more updates as things take shape.

Stay tuned for future updates!



October 12, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is pleased to provide a sneak peek video showcasing the upcoming Earth 2 Launcher which our dev team have been working on as part of the E2V1 Pre-Alpha release. Designed to serve as a centralised hub for Players, this launcher will offer a streamlined way to access and manage various facets of Earth 2 as we pioneer toward the 3D part of our journey.

A Central Command Centre for Earth 2

Earth 2 is building its own Metaverse platform, therefore, instead of following the approach of many games that rely on launchers like Steam or Epic Games, Earth 2 has taken the early initiative to develop its own launcher. This choice will allow for greater flexibility and control, making it easier to ensure that Players have a smooth and cohesive experience across all aspects of Earth 2. 

Key Features of the Earth 2 Launcher
We have put together a few key points for those in the Earth 2 Community who do not understand what this launcher will do or what it will be used for:

Automatic Updates and Patching: The launcher will be able to detect software updates and automatically patch them into existing installations. Players will always have access to the latest version, improvements, and new content without needing to worry about manual updates.

Access to New Content and Experiences: As the Earth 2 Metaverse evolves, the launcher will not only support E2V1 but will also provide access to various facets of Earth 2 including new games, experiences, and content developed not only under the Earth 2 umbrella but also other publishers. This will ensure that players can easily discover and access new additions as they are released.

Comprehensive Management and Versioning: The Earth 2 Launcher will serve as a central command centre where players can manage downloads, track game versions, and handle other aspects of their experience in one place. We also intend to provide access to various parts of the Player’s Earth 2 accounts. This approach is designed to provide seamless access to various parts of the Earth 2 ecosystem as it continues to expand and develop.

We’ve prepared a few explanations just in case you are curious about what some of the systems in the Earth 2 Launcher sneak peek video are: 

E2V1: This represents the main, geologically accurate, 1:1 scale 3D Earth. It will initially be used to access the E2V1 Pre-Alpha build. Over time it will be used to navigate the world, explore with your avatar, survive, view properties, interact with systems inside E2V1, and more.

E2 Hordes: Earth 2 Hordes will become the first 3D mini-game inside Earth 2. It will be a smash-’em-up, fun-to-play, short to mid length game loop focused on Player owned properties that have Essence actively staked in the Mentar which will attract the Horde units. In addition to the game mechanics, Players will be able to collect E-ther and some loot drops such as cosmetics and other items.



The initial purpose of E2 Hordes is to allow our team to test avatar movement, animations, battle mechanics, multiplayer and other systems pertinent to the future expansion of Earth 2.



E2 Hordes will be accessible via the Earth 2 launcher and will provide access to a lobby system that queues Players waiting for games based on various criteria such as location and other target details.


EcoSim: The EcoSim always has been and always will be a fundamental part of Earth 2’s future. Players who participate in the EcoSim will be able to download and access it inside E2V1. The EcoSim will provide the ability to manage and build on properties using resources, Essence and more. Players will be able to build a variety of buildings, starting with industrial for processing raw materials into building blocks, manufacturing to produce various units, residential and leading onto actual retail and commercial infrastructure.



At this point, depending on progress made in other facets of E2V1, we hope to launch the early stage of the EcoSim inside E2V1 some time in 2025.


Conquer: Conquer will become a global base strategy game where Players can create units to occupy and battle for territories and fly your flag. No more spoilers at this stage but it is our plan for Conquer to help test parts of the EcoSim and logistic systems.


Raiding: The Raiding mechanics that a devout group of Earth 2 Players have been so passionate about will be transformed into 3D gameplay inside E2V1. Players will be able to download and access the new Raiding game system via the Earth 2 Launcher.


Avatar: The Avatar system will allow Players to create, adjust and change their Avatar. We are still working on the avatar creation process, but initially this system will allow the Player to change their skins.

Setting the Foundations for the Earth 2 Metaverse
The creation of a custom launcher wasn’t on our road map, but it represents a positive step toward laying a strong foundation for the Earth 2 project. Many titles choose to release through third-party launchers, but Earth 2’s decision to develop its own launcher will not only streamline the player experience and ensure a well-integrated environment as the project expands, but facilitate and support new opportunities in the future.

By taking this approach, Earth 2 aims to establish better control over the user experience and enhance the ease of accessing new features, events, and content. The custom launcher will help provide a solid base for Earth 2’s future growth, allowing players to engage with the platform in a simple and organised manner.

Looking Ahead to E2V1 and Beyond
With the upcoming release of E2V1 Pre-Alpha, the Earth 2 Launcher will play a pivotal role in ensuring that players can easily access, update, and experience the various facets of the evolving metaverse.

This new launcher will be an important step toward a more integrated and accessible virtual experience, providing a glimpse into how Earth 2 is shaping its path forward. We’re eager to hear your thoughts—what do you think about the new Earth 2 Launcher? 

We have a long journey ahead, but stay tuned as we continue to build and refine the Earth 2 Metaverse!


November 16, 2024 – Sydney, Australia –  And so Earth 2 enters a new phase—an era that will gradually open doors to a world of new opportunities for those Players ready to shape a living, breathing, global ecosystem from the land they own. This release marks the dawn of the dynamic Earth 2 EcoSim, a time of new beginnings, where war chests for dynasties may begin to form, strengthen positions for future alliances, and the seeds of global trade, industry, and building start to take root. 

As the foundations of the EcoSim unfold, we can envision the collection, processing and exchange of resources, and the rise of strategic building, with exploration transitioning into remote outposts, developing into townships, and some maybe strong enough to slowly evolve into bustling megacities dotted around the world. This is just the beginning — a time for gathering, planning, and pioneering a path forward as we welcome the first major steps of the massive, dynamic, Player-driven, global scale Earth 2 Resource System – the Earth 2 EcoSim.

Earth 2 is pleased to share insight and details into the largest feature release from Earth 2 to date: the EcoSim Resource System. The Resource layer of the EcoSim is a significant one as it forms the basis for almost all future buildings, vehicles and objects created by Players in the Earth 2 Metaverse. This article will detail everything you need to know to get started with Resource Occurrence Units for replicating Raw Materials which will be critical for any kind of progression in the Earth 2 EcoSim; something we anticipate will be a highly traded asset inside of Earth 2, in terms of volume, once transportation systems come online inside E2V1.

A POWERFUL SYSTEM

The Earth 2 Resource System was brought online earlier this year and is a notable achievement of software engineering, the culmination of months of design, development, testing, and implementation. Every day, within a four-hour cycle, this powerful system generates over 170,000,000 O.U.’s as it processes nearly 400,000,000 mutable data points. Each data point is processed based on adjustable information, such as the eligibility to spawn resources, but also based on variables like current slotted Jewels, Cydroids, Land Tier, and more.

This Earth 2 Resource System serves as a backbone for Earth 2’s 1:1 scale global EcoSim, and in addition to the system processes that determine over 170,000,000 O.U.’s daily, simultaneously enables Players to claim tens of millions of O.U.’s, recently averaging over 140,000,000 O.U.’s per day, while maintaining a complete transactional record of each claim event. 

This means, in addition to other data workload, the Earth 2 Resource System alone generates over 11,000 Resource O.U.’s per second while simultaneously allowing Players to claim and store over 140,000,000 O.U.’s throughout a typical day cycle.

This system handles big data and has been designed and built to scale long term and is a critical piece of in-house technology, supporting both current and future requirements for sustainable growth.

Introduction
Economic Simulators are rarely simple and while this new Earth 2 system may feel quite complex at first, the mechanics of how each of its components interact purposefully together provides various opportunities for unique, enriching and rewarding Player strategies overall. 

This monumental release crucially brings together the existing core EcoSim components we have established (Jewels, HoloBuildings, Resource detection, the Mentar and E-ther, Cydroids, and Civilians), alongside new expansions to existing systems (Prospecting Cydroids and Geologist Civilians) to deliver a robust foundational Resource System offering many opportunities for gameplay and strategic depth for Earth 2 Players who are interested in pursuing EcoSim ventures. The boosted utility to the above core EcoSim components, or digital byproducts, has been strategically planned to prepare for a significant utility boost to Essence once Raw Materials and other aspects of the EcoSim are released.

EARTH 2 PLAYER TYPES

In the past, we’ve emphasised that Earth 2 is being designed to bring different types of Players, and different types of people, together, inside an evolving Metaverse, each with their own preference of gameplay. With that vision in mind, we plan to design and build systems that will deliver a range of mini-games and experiences in E2V1, each tailored to these various Player types.

We understand that some Players may find the EcoSim complex or challenging, and that’s because it’s crafted with a certain kind of Player type in mind—the strategist, the explorer, the builder, the trader, the one looking to master and potentially capitalise on the intricate mechanics of this global size EcoSim. 

Therefore, we would like to gently remind our community that before diving into this article, remember: the Earth 2 EcoSim is designed for a specialised Player type and may not be everyone’s perfect fit! 

If you don’t believe you fit into this Player group, then read on at your own risk!

EARTH 2 RESOURCES

Just like our planet Earth, Earth 2 has Resources that are distributed across its virtual land, mostly based on their real-world geolocation. There are 32 Resources that have been officially discovered inside Earth 2 so far and which form the underlying foundation for the core building aspect of the EcoSim. 24 of these resources are still currently available to claim via the E2PRV system, but only for a limited time. 

If there is a Resource detected on a Player’s property they will have the ability to mine that Resource by gaining its Occurrence Units (O.U.’s) which will, in turn, be processed into Raw Materials by an upcoming EcoSim component called the Weaver. The Weaver will require Essence to be staked and in some cases burned, to process the O.U.’s into Raw Materials.

Through a variety of different types of factories, Raw Materials will then be used as the core ingredients for creating over 200 unique Building Blocks used for constructing a variety of Buildings, Factories, Power Cells, Engines , Energy Producing Technologies, Broadcast Devices, Machinery, Military-Grade Technologies, and more inside Earth 2’s open 3D world, E2V1.

These 32 Resources are categorised into Discovery Tiers which are characterised by their: 

Application Capacity: higher Discovery Tier Resources will generally be applied in more advanced technologies (Building blocks & Objects)
Global Rarity: higher Discovery Tier Resources are more scarcely available in the virtual soil of Earth 2 than lower Discovery Tier resources. This rarity is separate to Resource Frequency which is explained further down. 
Yield Difficulty: higher Discovery Tier Resources will generally be more difficult to yield as their density in the soil is more scarce than lower Discovery Tier Resources. 
Based on these Discovery Tiers, some Resources cannot be yielded by the Mentar alone and are not supported by properties lower than Tier 1 (see our previous announcement for Discovery Tier requirements for each Resource). 

Earth 2 has allowed for most Discovery Tier Resources to remain openly claimable by Players via the E2PRV system. However, after a period of time, now soon coming to an end, these will close and may only open periodically, with the higher Discovery Tier Resources opening less frequently and for shorter periods of time, if ever. Earth 2 may also allocate new locations for various Resources in the future but these will predominantly be focused on new areas rewarding Players who explore and prospect inside E2V1 and these locations in some situations may be scarce, meaning that depending on long term EcoSim balancing, the higher Discovery Tier Resources secured on land through the E2PRV system today may end up becoming the major source of such Resource ownership and control long term!

These are important facts to know as a Landowner but all prospective EcoSim Players should carefully consider the following information in addition to the Discovery Tier restrictions and requirements. 

Resource Frequency Categories
Resource Frequencies reveal the density of the Resource occurrence in the virtual soil of Earth 2 and has, up until now, been separated into 2 general categories: ‘HF’ and ‘UF’ (High Frequency & Unknown Frequency). Gone are those days of wondering what ‘UF” Resources might mean, with the release of the EcoSim Resource system, the precise and detailed frequency category system for Resources has finally been unveiled. For all Resources detected in Earth 2 land, the following 5 frequency categories are applied:

Copious (previously under ‘HF’)
Rich (previously under ‘UF’)
Moderate (previously under ‘UF’)
Sparse (previously under ‘UF’)
Deficient (previously under ‘UF’)
This change to pre-existing Resource frequency information is not random and has been strategically implemented to align logically with real-world Resource accuracy and enhance the realism of Resource distribution in Earth 2.

Until recently, Resource frequencies were often referred to on the assumption that they were attributed on a ‘per property’ basis. However, we can now confirm that frequency categories, and subsequent Occurrence Units, are so refined and granular that they are in fact attributed on a ’per tile’ level to individual tiles on a property for the Resources present in the land, if detected on the property at all. This is how Earth 2 has been able to achieve an almost completely unique Resource output potential for the over 6.1 million player-owned properties. A Player who owns 2 neighbouring properties with exactly the same Resources distributed on them will sometimes experience slightly different yields based on this intricate design. 

Frequency categories at the tile level are not visible for the Landowners though which is something to consider when analysing the output data from your properties. For now, Players need only concern themselves with their property’s overall frequency category. While a property may almost always contain tiles of a range of Resource frequencies, the design strictly dictates that at least 80% of a property’s Resource tiles match the main frequency category; you can think of this as the minimum frequency. 

As an example, a 750 tile property attributed with a frequency category of ‘Copious’ for gold means that the lowest frequency for 80% of the tiles with detected gold from that property are ‘Copious’ frequency. This can be further broken down into the 600 tiles which actually have gold and at least 80 % of these tiles (480 out of 600) will be ‘Copious’. The other 20% (120) may have any other frequency category attribution. However, as ‘Copious ’is the main category, it is less likely to have ‘Deficient’ frequency category tiles as compared to say an overall ‘Sparse’ frequency property. Note that this minimum 80% applies only to the tiles that actually have the Resource detected. If only 200 of the 750 tiles have gold detected, then it would mean that 80% of the 200 tiles will be attributed a minimum frequency of ‘Copious’.

Resource Occurrence Units
Most Resources in Earth 2 are situated deep underground, much like Resources in the real world. As E-ther evaporates from the virtual land, it carries with it the binary data of Resources present in the land which is measured in Occurrence Units (O.U.’s). 

Even the smallest capturable E-ther particle (0.01 E-ther) could potentially contain an abundant amount of O.U.’s. However, this binary data contained within the E-ther may only be read once by a prospector at the moment the E-ther is captured. As each particle of E-ther potentially contains O.U.’s for multiple Resources it means that Landowners must carefully decide which Resources to prospect out of  each E-ther particle that is captured and read. 

Importantly, in order for land to spawn the E-ther which contains Resource O.U.’s, a Mentar is required to draw out or attract the E-ther from the land. This is why Tier 3 properties are unable to yield O.U.’s as the SEED is not able to activate the land’s natural E-ther spawn but may only attract boosted E-ther which has gone unclaimed from Tier 1 and Tier 2 properties located in the same country. 

O.U. values attributed to each tile (as described in Resource Frequency Categories above) contribute to a Property’s maximum Occurrence Unit value calculated for each Resource that has been detected on their property. Only Tier 1 properties can fully leverage this maximum value whereas Tier 2  properties have reduced read capacity of these values and Tier 3 properties have no read capacity at all, emphasising the role that property upgrades play in EcoSim Resource strategic gameplay. 

Reduced read capacity means that even though the Yield Power and Yield Effect is at 100% in your Resource claim settings, a Tier 2 property will still read and mine less than if it was a Tier 1 property which has maximum read capacity of the O.U.’s in the E-ther, for example.  

Accessing Resource Data From Your Properties
The ability to access the property Resource data is directly dictated by Tier hierarchy. The following table illustrates the Tier requirements that must be met in order to access the Resource data on player-owned land. 

Land Tier	Detected Resource	Frequency Category	Occurrence Unit Value
Tier 1	Revealed	Revealed	Revealed by Geologist
Tier 2	Revealed	D1-D6 Revealed D7-D9 Displayed as Unknown	D1-D6 Revealed by Geologist
D7-D9 Hidden
Tier 3	Revealed	Displayed as Unknown	Hidden
To unlock exclusive access to a certain Tier of Land, a property must be upgraded, for example Tier 3 upgraded to Tier 2 or Tier 2 upgraded to Tier 1. Furthermore, yielding can only occur when the exact Resource frequency category is known, even if a Resource has been detected. If the frequency is ‘Unknown’, the Land Tier must be upgraded to unlock O.U. yield from that property.  Conversely, revealing the exact Occurrence Unit value is not required for mining O.U.’s and so the Geologist Civilian (detailed later in this article) is not a core requirement for Resource production. However, having access to O.U. values may facilitate strategic planning and optimised gameplay.  

These EcoSim restrictions based on Land Tier are well known and contribute to healthy gameplay mechanics. Benefits for Tier 1 Land are a reward to our original Earth 2 Players as well as an incentive for Players to dedicate themselves to progressing the strength of their portfolio in the Earth 2 EcoSim by upgrading their land or acquiring it from existing Players. 

THE EARTH 2 RESOURCE SYSTEM
The Resource system involves the mining of Resource O.U.’s from Player-owned land, and later the production of Raw Materials from these O.U.’s utilising Essence, which are then crafted into Building Blocks. It is important to understand each of the following existing and expanded EcoSim components and the role they play in the Resource system, as they each influence Players’ abilities to yield O.U.’s from their lands. 

THE MENTAR: PRIMING RESOURCE PRODUCTION WITH JEWELS
The Mentar was the first structure erected on properties in Earth 2 and is the source of many EcoSim activities. Almost everything in the Earth 2 EcoSim begins as a product or by-product of the land, and the Mentar is the only structure so far with the unique ability to capture what the land has to offer and harness them to the will of the landowner. 

The Mentar’s critical ability to attract and capture E-ther and Jewels makes it essential for yielding Resource O.U.’s. The majority of Earth 2 Players, especially those just starting their EcoSim journey, will be reliant on the power of the Mentar to begin mining Resources from their lands. 

Note: As Tier 3 land cannot yield any Resources due to the fact that their Mentar is in the SEED Stage and there is no natural E-ther that evaporates from the soil, upgrading T3 Land is the only way to yield O.U.’s from that property. 

In addition to having a Mentar on the property, the Mentar’s Jewel slots must be primed for mining using the Prime Jewels associated with the Resources on the property (see the Resources chart shown above). Without these Jewels feeding critical information about the Resource the landowner desires to yield from their property, the Mentar is unable to read and extract the specific O.U.’s from the E-ther that it collects. 

Prime Jewels were named for their ability to prime the production of the associated Resource on the land. The Quality and Tier of these Prime Jewels also determine their priming capacity and boost to the Mentar’s Yield Power. The Resource that is primed by a Jewel and how much boost is applied to the O.U. yield can be revealed by hovering over the Jewel to reveal its detailed effects. 

THE PROSPECTING CYDROID: OPTIMISING O.U. YIELD
Gen 1 Cydroids were built by luring and capturing Metasprites using the Mentar’s ability to harness Essence. The Essence that was used to capture these Metasprites imparted upon these Cydroids an intrinsic connection to the land. It is also known that Jewels have a similar connection having spawned directly from the land. It was quickly discovered that these shared connections to the land could be exploited to unlock special abilities when specific Jewels were fused with compatible Cydroids.  

Obtaining Prospecting Cydroids 
A Cydroid’s primary ability is raiding E-ther from neighbouring lands. However, a Gen 1 Cydroid may also acquire the ability to Prospect Resource O.U.’s when fused with a compatible Jewel associated with the Resource they are both connected to. To obtain a Prospecting Cydroid, fusing must be done by going to ‘Administration’ in the Profile Menu and finding the Cydroid to fuse. The correct Cydroid associated with the Resource detected on the host property must be selected. For example, the Cephalo Cydroid tethered to a property with Iron detected (refer to the Resources chart for compatible Cydroids and Prime Jewels). 

Selecting the ‘FUSE’ button will allow Players to choose a Jewel to fuse with the Cydroid. Once the fuse is successfully completed, a new Resource boost area will be unlocked, located at the bottom of the Cydroid Boost page. Only the Jewels that prime or boost the Resource the Prospecting Cydroid is specialised for will be displayed for slotting into these Special Fuse Boost slots.

The Quality and Tier of the Jewel used to fuse with a Cydroid will affect the chances for higher base Resource Yield Power and the number of Fuse Boost slots that are available in the Cydroid. Tier 3 Prime Jewels of the highest Quality provide the greatest chance to achieve the best Yield Power and Boost slots. Brilliant Jewels will not appear as being available to fuse with Cydroids to eliminate any possibility of these rare and coveted Jewels being accidentally consumed in the process. 

As successfully fusing a Cydroid with a Jewel is irreversible, the decision on what Tier and Quality Jewel to use should be made wisely. The following table reveals the probability of unlocking more Resource Boost slots in a prospecting Cydroid depending on the Tier and Quality of the Jewel used. 

The resulting Resource Boost slots in a Prospecting Cydroid can be slotted with Jewels to further boost the Cydroids’ Yield Power. These jewels, as opposed to the Jewel initially used to fuse with the Cydroid, can be unslotted at any time. They will also be automatically unslotted and returned to the original owner if the Cydroid is sold in the Bazaar so that precious Jewels are not accidentally sold. Having more Resource Boost slots gives a single Prospecting Cydroid to have higher overall Resource Yield Power. Of course this is also affected by the Boost power of the slotted Jewels themselves. 

When the Prospecting Cydroid is successfully fused the specialised Resource icon will be displayed next to the Cydroid’s image. The Prospecting Cydroid will now appear as an option to assign for prospecting on the property to which it is tethered. 

THE GEOLOGIST: UNVEILING HIDDEN RESOURCE OCCURRENCES OF THE LAND
The Geologist’s main ability is to analyse the soil and uncover the exact value of the Occurrence Units contained within each land tile. Even for the specialised Geologist it is challenging to uncover the density and exact frequency category of Resources from the higher Discovery Tiers, due to their scarcity in the land. As the Geologist becomes more experienced, they will be able to more accurately analyse the density and reveal the Occurrence Unit values of higher Discovery Tier Resources. 

Geologist XP Level	Readable Resources 
Level 1	Discovery Tier 1
Level 2	Discovery Tier 2
Level 3	Discovery Tier 3
Level 4	Discovery Tier 4
Level 5	Discovery Tier 5
Level 6	Discovery Tier 6
Level 7	Discovery Tier 7
Level 8	Discovery Tier 8
Level 9	Discovery Tier 9
Level 10	?
For every O.U. yield from the property, the resident Geologist is able to analyse the data with great scientific skill to derive the density of the O.U.’s in the soil of the tiles where the prospector collected the E-ther. While the Civilians on the Raiding team share the XPs obtained through their Raiding exploits, the Geologist gains experience as O.U.’s are yielded and analysed. For the Geologist to hone their skills to reach higher XP levels, O.U.’s must be yielded from the host property for the Geologist to analyse, as 1 XP is gained for every 3 O.U.’s collected. 

It is important to note that yielding O.U.’s without a Geologist is possible. However, employing a Geologist will enable deeper insights into the exact O.U. values in the land for better decision making on the yield strategy. 

Synthesising the Geologist 
The conflict-driven Civilians in the Cydroid flight bay seek to gain Red Energy for sustenance, but the Geologist is partial to the delicate art of science and has learned to forage for food from their natural environment when out on their daily excursions. Thus they do not partake in Red Energy for sustenance. Furthermore, synthesising this peaceful Geologist is much easier and only requires 10 E-ther to bring to life, plus no Red Energy to sustain.  

With the introduction of the Geologist, the Civilians synthesis process has been improved to allow Players to synthesise any Civilian in any order. This will allow Players to synthesise a Geologist on a property that is to be dedicated to Resource production without having to synthesise an entire raiding team.  

Without the Geologist the O.U. values will be hidden. Once the insights are unlocked for a particular Resource, the equivalent m3 value will also be displayed. However, the conversion to physical raw material m3 is conducted by the Weaver which will be available in a future release.  It is important to distinguish that for Resource Insights, the m3 value indicates how much HoloBuilding storage space the O.U.’s will fill, with 10,000 O.U.’s fitting into 1m3 HoloBuilding storage. Whereas, in Resource Storage, the m3 value indicates how many Raw Materials can be crafted from the amount of O.U.’s currently stored, with 100 O.U.’s making up 1m3 of physical Raw Materials.

HoloBuildings: Localised Inventory for O.U. Storage
When HoloBuildings were introduced to the Earth 2 platform, they were intended to function as additional storage space for Resources that existed at the beginning of the EcoSim. These user-generated HoloBuilding designs not only added uniqueness to properties with built forms but also served as the first medium for user creativity and expression that could be displayed on properties and viewed in 3D from the map.

These user-generated HoloBuildings are the first available storage for O.U.’s for the property they are built on. The m3 volume of all HoloBuildings placed on a property are aggregated to make up the total O.U. storage capacity for that property. 1m3 of HoloBuilding volume is able to store 10,000 O.U.’s. When O.U.’s are stored in aggregated HoloBuilding space, the system is designed to automatically store them in the HoloBuilding with available storage space. 

Once a HoloBuilding is built on a property, the Landowner may begin to store any O.U.’s they have the ability to collect from that property. The following messages describe the HoloBuilding storage capacity status on a property that has O.U.’s available to store:

Will Be Saved
Will Fail To Save
When available O.U.’s are ready to be stored but the system has detected issues with the Storage capacity on one or more properties, the designed system presents an option in the claiming module called “Show Capacity Issues” which will reveal the following when selected:  

Properties with full storage space;
Properties that will fail to store the predicted O.U.’s in the next E-ther Claim; and
Properties that have assigned Prospectors to obtain O.U.’s but have no HoloBuilding to store the O.U.’s available to collect. 

Currently it is not possible to discard specific Resource O.U.’s that are already stored in a HoloBuilding to make space for new O.U.’s without first altering the HoloBuilding storage capacity itself. This can be done by editing the HoloBuilding and adding more volume to the HoloBuilding itself. A 10m3 HoloBuilding can be built for the cost of E$0.01 which is capable of holding up to 100,000 O.U.’s. The O.U.’s stored in HoloBuildings will naturally decrease once options like processing them into Raw Materials becomes available via the Weaver and other Utility Earth 2 has planned for O.U.’s.

Note: HBs smaller than 10m3 may be constructed but the lowest construction cost E$0.01. 

In the event where a built HoloBuilding is reduced in size (m3) there is a risk that the new storage capacity will drop below what is required to continue storing the O.U.’s that are contained within the existing HoloBuilding. The Player must then decide how many O.U.’s of each Resource stored should be discarded in order to successfully reduce the HoloBuilding size. The volume amount that the HoloBuilding was reduced by will be saved as “Unallocated Volume” in the Player’s account and can be used to increase (up to the equivalent volume) any other HoloBuilding they construct.

In the event where a built HoloBuilding is deconstructed and removed from the property completely, all O.U.’s stored in the HoloBuilding will be irreversibly and irretrievably lost. The HoloBuildings which reside in the Ethereal plane is how O.U. transfers are received from the Mentar and without these HoloBuilding all O.U.’s read by the Prospectors are lost in the Ethereal plane.  

Getting Started: Mining Resource Occurrence Units
To begin Resource production on a property, the following minimum requirements must be met to successfully yield Resource O.U.’s:

The Resource is detected on the property and the frequency category is revealed (Copious, Rich, Moderate, Sparse, Deficient);
A Mentar is constructed on the property and the Prime Jewel associated with each of the detected Resources desired for production is slotted (Prospecting Cydroids can also be used and the process is detailed further down); and
A HoloBuilding with available storage capacity is built on the property (i.e. not already full with backdated Resources)
Once these minimum requirements are met, the O.U. yield process will automatically begin. All that is left to do is to regularly claim the E-ther and Resource to ensure that any mined O.U.’s are safely collected and stored in the aggregated HoloBuilding storage on the property.

When claiming E-ther and Resources, Players are able to see which Resources will be successfully yielded from that particular claim. While E-ther and Resource O.U.’s can be claimed collectively from a Player’s entire portfolio of land, the values obtained from each contributing property will be accumulated on and credited to the original property’s local storage. The collective O.U. values displayed for each Resource may also be hidden or inaccurate if there is no Geologist employed on at least one of the properties. Again, not having a Geologist on a property does not affect the O.U. yield but does affect the insights that are made available for that property. 

The claim interface will also display the potential O.U.’s lost due to detected storage capacity issues if the available E-ther and Resources are claimed as is. “Will fail to store ” is displayed next to any Resource with potential storage issues. Where ‘???’ is displayed in place of a specific O.U. value indicates the property does not have a Geologist who is able to reveal the values for the particular Resource. The ‘View Storage Capacities’ button will redirect Players to the Storage Capacity interface where they will easily be able to identify which property has insufficient capacity for the amount of O.U.’s that have been extracted. 

The system has been designed in a way that Players may also choose to claim their read E-ther separately to their Resources. This is particularly useful when storage issues are detected and the Player is able to claim their E-ther before it evaporates or is raided and still have enough time to fix any storage issues and safely collect their Resource O.U.’s. 

The above method of Resource mining is the easiest way to start yielding Resources from your property. However, there are other strategies and steps you can use to improve the efficiency of your daily Resource yield. 

Optimise O.U. yield with Prospecting Cydroids

Prospecting Cydroids can be used to further optimise the Resource production on their properties, as they have more effective Yield power and can extract more O.U.’s than the Mentar which is limited by comparison. While these First Gen Prospecting Cydroids are able to raid and prospect, they cannot do both simultaneously. If a Prospecting Cydroid is in the middle of a raid-related activity (raiding, dispensing, relocating), the ability to prospect will not be available until the action is completed or aborted. Prospecting Cydroids need power like any other Cydroid and may even run out of Energy whilst Prospecting. A Cydroid Technician on the property will be able to recharge a depleted Prospecting Cydroid which does not have any Yield Power until it is recharged. 

E-ther Read Allocation

The ‘Claims Settings’ interface will be the hub for managing the O.U. yield process for each property and is accessible from the Player Profile page or Property Details page. It provides a comprehensive overview of the particulars of O.U. mining. 

The system has been designed in a way that once the Resource Yield process is initiated, the allocation of E-ther across all the Resources primed for production whether by the Mentar or Cydroids is automatically distributed evenly. This function ensures an equal distribution of E-ther based on the number of Resources, the active Yield power of the Resources and their frequency categories. 

If one Resource has its yield power removed (by unslotting the associated Prime Jewel from the Mentar or the removal of the Cydroids from their prospecting task) the allocation of E-ther will automatically readjust towards the remaining Resources with active Yield power.

Players who prefer a hands-on approach to Resource management can switch to manual mode which will allow them to meticulously configure the E-ther Allocation percentages themselves. However, in Manual mode Resources that lose their Yield power for whatever reason will not trigger an automatic reallocation of E-ther. Instead, the percentage of E-ther that is not allocated to read a Resource will be flagged with an “unread” or “unprospected” status. To have optimal O.U. yield, all available E-ther should be allocated for reading. 

We have designed this system with options that may come in handy if a Player needs to urgently focus on a specific type of Resource production, potentially reacting to global events inside Earth 2 at the time.

Tip: To streamline navigation and enhance user experience with this feature, shortcut icons have been integrated. Selecting the Mentar or Jewel icon will direct Players to the Mentar slotting page, while selecting any Cydroid displayed in the interface will redirect them to the corresponding Cydroid boost overview in the Administration interface.

Managing Your Resource Production
Managing the production of Resource O.U.’s will be the next challenge for most Players focused on the EcoSim, more specifically resource mining, and potentially more so for those with a large portfolio. It is, therefore, important to understand what areas of the Resource system to keep an eye on and where to find information or functionality for the action that is required to manage Resource production. 

MANAGING ON A PORTFOLIO LEVEL

To assist with the overview of Resource O.U. yield across a Player’s entire portfolio, a new filter has been added to the Player Profile to display the ‘Yield Status’ of each property and identify the properties with potential issues that may affect the next yield. Resource icons on each property are highlighted in the colour matching the yield status to quickly identify the Resource/s that need attention. 

Colour	Yield Status	Required Action
Green	On Target	None – Occurrence Units will successfully be yielded from the next E-ther Spawn
Yellow	Reading Reduced	Check Cydroids –  Occurrence Units will be yielded from the next E-ther Spawn BUT one or more Prospecting Cydroids have no Energy to complete their task
Red	Reading Halted	Charge Cydroids – Occurrence Units will NOT be yielded from the next E-ther Spawn. All Prospecting Cydroids have no Energy to complete their task.
Black	Not Configured	Optional – Configure Prospectors to yield O.U.’s from the next E-ther Spawn. 
Prospecting Cydroids that run out of Power and are unable to prospect for Resource O.U.’s may be recharged by the resident Cydroid Technician. If no Technician is employed on the property, the Player must manually recharge the Cydroid from the Raid Menu interface (Map -> Raid Menu -> Property -> Charge Cydroids). While a Cydroid Technician may be added to a property to assist with keeping Cydroids charged with Power, Players should remember that one of their primary motives is to acquire the Red Energy that sustains them. Due to this, Red Energy reserves become an important commodity for properties where Players cannot or do not intend to raid from. 

In addition to the yield status of each property which can be seen in the Portfolio, Players are able to view all the Resources that are collectively detected across their portfolio of properties and the maximum potential O.U.’s that can be yielded for each of those Resources under LAND RESOURCES. It is important to note that where there is no Geologist stationed on a property, no O.U. values will have been revealed in order to be accounted for in the aggregated values shared from the system on your portfolio’s LAND RESOURCES page.

Under each Resource, the total number of tiles containing that Resource across all the properties in the portfolio are displayed in Tiers. It is important to be aware that not all tiles within a property will have the same frequency of a particular Resource detected on it. For example, a 100 tile property with overall Copious frequency Limestone may only have 85 tiles which are actually of that specific frequency. Thus a Player may see that a 100 tile property is displayed as 85 tiles Copious, 5 Rich, 2 Sparse, 1 Deficient, and 7 with no Limestone at all. For a detailed explanation, please refer back to the Resource Frequency Category section of this article.

Resource Balance and Resource Transactions can also be found under the Player Profile page under Resources. These sections have been designed to show the aggregated O.U. values of every Resource currently stored in their HoloBuildings, and every single isolated O.U. yield successfully or unsuccessfully stored, respectively. The O.U.’s displayed in the Resource Balance is a result of our EcoSim system calculating an aggregation of all available data values across the entire portfolio. 

Furthermore, while Players have the option to view the total Occurrence Units they have stored across their portfolio, it is important to note that each O.U. is stored locally and cannot be transferred between properties. The Weaver, which will be released in the future, will be able to convert any stored O.U.’s into physical matter (m3) Raw Materials which may then be transferred between properties using logistics. Earth 2 has plans to introduce an automated system at a later date which will make it possible to process O.U.’s directly into the Weaver, skipping the need for O.U. storage when this automatic replication process is in place. It is worth noting that there is no ETA on this update including any specifics we can share right now, and there will always be numerous strategic advantages in being able to store O.U.’s.

For now, all O.U.’s that are extracted must have enough available storage space to be stored. From the profile Resources page, if any Resources have issues with storage space a red warning icon accompanied by red text reading “Capacity” will appear beside the number of properties with the storage space issues affecting the potential yield of the Resource. Selecting ‘View Storage’ will open the storage capacity pop-up pre-filtered to display properties for that particular Resource.

MANAGING ON A PROPERTY LEVEL

The EcoSim system also provides a more granular view of the exact O.U.’s for each Resource stored in a Property’s HoloBuildings and the current storage capacity, which can both be viewed on the Property Page via the  new tab system. The amount of O.U.’s that have been yielded and are currently stored in balance together with remaining storage capacity on the property are displayed. A shortcut button to access the Claim Settings interface has also been added here for convenience along with an “Edit HoloBuilding” button for quick access to the HoloBuilding Editor. On this page and with the help of a Geologist, Players can see whether the maximum O.U. potential has been met by the predicted daily field. If it has not, further optimisation strategies should be made. 

Property Resource data is also conveniently displayed in the Jewel slotting tab for the Mentar. New filters for Resource Type and Frequency Category further assist in identifying the correct properties and Resources that can be primed. Slotting the Mentar with Prime Jewels can boost the Yield Power, though not on the same level as using Prospecting Cydroids.  Other Jewels with Resource boost effects may also be slotted into the Mentar but will only contribute to boosting the Mentar’s Yield Power if the Prime Jewel is also slotted. 

Strategic Gameplay: Increasing O.U. Yield for Optimal Productivity
In almost everything related to Earth 2, the goal is for Players to positively utilise the full potential of their existing portfolio to get the most out of the time they spend managing it. Simply participating in the EcoSim is easy to do and can be immediately rewarding. But for Players who are looking for maximum gains, the use of skill and strategic finesse is required and often produces handsome returns.  

While Earth 2 firmly believes every Earth 2 Player’s experience of and potential in the EcoSim is unique and should therefore be addressed with unique strategies based on their portfolio, the following areas of considerations are provided to help Players understand where they could be more strategic to enhance their personal experiences with Resource production.

A tailored approach to the E-ther Split

One way to maximise the daily Resource O.U. yield is to actively manage the E-ther yield split on properties that have more than 1 Resource being primed for production. The following scenario illustrates a potential strategy that Players could employ:

A property has a max value of 1000 O.U. Limestone and 1000 O.U. Gold and the E-ther spawn on a particular day is 10 E-ther. The Landowner decides to read all (100%) of the E-ther spawn for Limestone O.U.’s. In this case, none of the 1000 Gold O.U.’s contained in the E-ther will be stored as the E-ther is only read for Limestone O.U.’s. 

To update the E-ther split again, the Landowner must wait for the next E-ther spawn to reallocate the Resource read percentages. A new day arrives and a new E-ther spawn occurs. The Landowner now decides to read half (50%) of the E-ther Spawn for Limestone and the other half (50) for Gold. The landowner now has a maximum potential yield of 500 O.U. Limestone (half of Limestone) and 500 O.U. Gold (half of Gold). 

In each of the cases above where the Landowner has focused 100% of the E-ther to be read for the chosen Resources, Yield Power is still needed in order to achieve the maximum potential yield.

Prospecting Cydroids for maximum Yield Power

Prospecting Cydroids will maximise the Yield Power on a property. If a Player has 5 Prospecting Cydroids for Limestone that each have 20% Yield Power, their combined Yield Power would equate to 100% Yield Power. 100% Yield Power means that the landowner may be able to yield the max. O.U. values from the E-ther, resulting in a yield of 1,000 O.U.’s for  Limestone on the first day. If the Landowner only used 1 Prospecting Cydroid with just 20% Yield Power, then the O.U.’s from the E-ther spawn would be read by that Cydroid. However, they will only manage to yield  20% of the 1,000 O.U.’s for Limestone.

In the case where the Landowner only allocates 50% of the E-ther through a prospecting Cydroid, the yield power cannot obtain the properties Max O.U.’s. Instead, a single Cydroid with 20% Yield Power reading 50% of the E-ther’s O.U.’s for Limestone will result in a 10% Effect Power of the maximum O.U. which equates to 100 Limestone O.U.’s from that yield. 

Strategic thinking will be involved to determine what percentage of  E-ther should be read for which Resource and how many Prospecting Cydroids to assign for each Resource. The Mentar only has Yield Power as long as a Prime Jewel is slotted. Both the Mentar and Cydroids can be boosted with additional Yield Power through Jewels.

These dynamic systems will come in handy when Players need to focus on specific Resources for their empire or world events.

Mentars vs. Prospecting Cydroids

D1 – D6 Resources can be yielded by either the Mentar (using Prime Jewels) or Prospecting Cydroids specialised in the appropriate Resource. It is optional to use either both the Mentar and Prospecting Cydroids, or just the Cydroid for Resource O.U.’s. For example, a Landowner may slot an Ochre Jewel to prime the Mentar for Iron and collect O.U.’s only through the Mentar or they may opt to use Prospecting Cydroids in addition to or exclusively without the Mentar. 

D7 -D9 Resources can only be prospected by the Prospecting Cydroid so priming the Mentar alone will not produce a successful yield unless paired with a Prospecting Cydroid. The Land Upgrade system provides an opportunity for Players to upgrade their properties, enhancing its ability and unlocking higher Discovery Tier Resources.

Backdated Resource O.U.s: The 1000 m3 HoloBuilding Promise
As a major fulfilment of a highly complex promise Earth 2 made in 2021, Players who opted to dive into the HoloBlueprints system and took part in the Backdating campaign leading up to the release of the Resource system have received their backdated Resources from Earth 2. Although extremely complicated, and admittedly the Resource release was behind schedule, this update reflects our continued commitment and dedication to deliver on promises we made to our Players in the past.  

While this may in some ways seem as though participating Players were given a head start in this EcoSim Resource, in actuality this is the direct product of  and reward for the time and effort these Players have put into Earth 2 by actively participating in the emerging EcoSim over the years. 

The calculation of these backdated Resource O.U.’s have been solely influenced by the Mentar, and any Jewels slotted in the Mentar, and considerately bypasses the Land Tier restrictions which are applied to the standard O.U. yield process for Players who participated. This is how, for example, some D7-D9 Resource O.U.’s have been collected from Tier 2 properties which typically do not support mining D7-D9 Resources. However, with the backdated Resources now fulfilled, Players must meet the Tier requirements in order to continue yielding the desired Resource O.U.’s. 

We believe that the underlying reward of these backdated Resources will contribute towards unprecedented opportunities for construction and development within Earth 2 for these participating Players as the EcoSim evolves. With the allocation of 1000 m3 maximum backdated HoloBuilding storage capacity per property, which is equivalent to 10 million O.U.’s, the opportunities for creation and P2P trading for these Players is significant. To put this into perspective, it only costs E$1.00 to construct a Holobuilding equivalent to 1000m3 which can store an  allocation of 10 million O.U.’s. If you happened to completely fill such a HoloBuilding during the backdate period we can provide a general guideline that once processed into Raw Materials and Building Blocks, a mixture of 10 million varying Resource O.U.’s will be enough to construct approximately one of the following examples:

Over 100 Residential Houses
Over 50 Apartments
Over 5 High-Rise Buildings
Over 2 Skyscrapers
Over 40 Small Factories
The 1000 m3 HoloBuilding storage cap was only applicable to the backdated Resource promise. Now that Players can mine Resources directly from their properties, Landowners may very well yield and store much more than 1000 m3 if their storage capacity allows. Players who received their backdated Resources may also now choose to increase the storage size of their HoloBuildings to continue collecting more O.U.’s and even use Prospecting Cydroids to mine O.U.’s much more effectively than slotted Mentars. 

Once we have the foundations well and truly set and functioning, Earth 2 will begin exploring other types of buildable or discoverable mechanics to increase the pace of O.U. yield, providing alternatives that each come with their own trade-offs to encourage further strategic gameplay. This is in line with our vision to offer diversified options for Earth 2 players catering to various EcoSim strategies and preferences.

The Bazaar: P2P Trading 
Along with updated UI to support the entire foundation of the Earth 2 EcoSim Resource system, changes have also been made to the Bazaar to make trading of Resource production focused digital items more convenient. 

Prospecting Cydroids can be purchased from the Cydroid bazaar with convenient filter and sort options to quickly find the Prospecting Cydroid required for specific Resource production needs. Players who choose to purchase Prospecting Cydroids can potentially bypass the time required if they were to build the Cydroid themselves and obtain the correct Prime Jewel required for the fuse. Players who choose to sell Prospecting Cydroids can benefit from the demand and may even dedicate their EcoSIm efforts into creating and supplying Prospecting Cydroids for other EcoSim Players. Listed Cydroids can be filtered by the associated Resource or number of Resource slots available, and sorted by the Cydroid’s Resource Yield power. 

Once a Prospecting Cydroid is selected for purchase from the Bazaar, the list of properties available for the new Cydroid to tether to will conveniently only contain properties that have the Resource the Cydroid can prospect for. This is also a safety feature to eliminate the potential for Players to accidentally purchase and place a Prospecting Cydroid on a property where they cannot be used for Resource production. 

Each Prospecting Cydroid listing will display the Resource it is specialised in. The back of the listing contains further details about the Cydroid’s Resource Yield power and number of Special Fuse boost slots (Resource slots). 

Geologist Civilians  may be purchased directly from the Bazaar and are a great option for Players looking to bypass the synthesis time (1 day), save their E-ther or obtain a Geologist that has already reached the XP Level that is required for the Resource they wish to mine. The XP Level of each Civilian can be found by using the Occupation and XP Level filters.The back of the listing will also detail the Civilian’s current XP Level and the amount of XPs they would need to reach the next XP Level. 

Blueprints & HoloBuilding listings have now been updated to display their O.U. storage capacities in the Bazaar. Whether a Player is short on time, is not interested in learning the HB Editor system, is looking for a beautiful design they do not have the capacity to create themselves, or all of the above, there is a HoloBuilding offered on the Bazaar to meet all those needs.  Players may purchase either HoloBuildings or Blueprints from the Bazaar but each of these licence types vary in how they can be used. Additionally, when purchasing HoloBuildings, Players must check that the size of the HoloBuilding is compatible with the size and shape of the property they intend to construct their HoloBuilding on. 

Utilising the additional filters is the best way to quickly and easily find the HoloBuilding or Blueprint based on the footprint size and dimensions of the property, as well as the price range Players are looking in. When selecting a HoloBuilding or Blueprint to purchase, Players should also be aware that they are purchasing the model or design itself, to the owner/creator of the HoloBlueprint. The construction cost of a HoloBuilding on a property is E$0.01 per m3, please remember to check the construction cost before making a purchase. 

To learn more about these important details, please read our previous announcement here.

Changes to previous announcements: 
Our major update introduced the concept of Land Resources, revolutionising how Players will interact with their virtual properties. We acknowledge that some changes implemented in this version of the Resource system have diverged from our initial game design (detailed here), but these were necessary steps towards a more immersive, dynamic and sustainable Earth 2 EcoSim experience.

For the most part, the below updates and adjustments have been made with the Player in mind, making the system more streamlined, convenient and/or advantageous.

Previously Prospecting Cydroids were said to be required to successfully dispense the E-ther into the Mentar before the Occurrence Units would be accounted for.

Now we clarify that when Cydroids are collecting native E-ther from the Landowner’s property, as this E-ther is directly bound to the property, Cydroids are able to directly transfer the collected E-ther and read O.U.’s to the Mentar without the dispensing process being required. The dispensing requirement previously shared is a process that will only be required when attempting to bind foreign (raided) E-ther to the base property and will be involved in a future update to the system. 

Previously the Mentar was said to only be able to read Resources belonging to Discovery Tier 1 and at a reduced yield rate. 

Now we have updated the system so that the Mentar is able to read up to and including Discovery Tier 6 Resources out of the initial 32 Resources officially released by Earth 2. Specialised Cydroids will continue to always have the advantage of stronger Yield Power over the Mentar when it comes to prospecting O.U.’s.

Previously the Head E-ther Reckoner was said to play a crucial role for Players to gain insights on their local O.U. storage capacity to ensure that enough storage space is maintained for the Occurrence Units Players were hoping to collect.

Now after carefully considering the balance of simple vs complex gameplay, we have introduced the separate Geologist Civilian who will allow Players to gain O.U. Insights of the property they are on, with many more Civilians planned for the future. Therefore, we shifted the role that the Head Reckoner was planned for and made adjustments for potential future use rather than for revealing insights of local O.U. storage capacities. 

Future updates and pending fixes
Given the sheer size of the EcoSim Resource system there have been a few issues resulting from the release which the Earth 2 team are currently working on resolving and optimising, if they have not already done so. For any Players who are experiencing any unresolved bugs we kindly ask for your continued patience and understanding while our dev team works on resolving them. 

If you are experiencing any bugs, please report them to https://support.earth2.io so that our dev team can continue to work through and resolve them. 

In the days and weeks following the release of this system, our team has also collected the feedback and suggestions made by our Players on future improvements we can make to enhance the experience for everyone. If you have a suggestion or constructive criticism you would like to share, please direct these to our Community Manager or submit a ticket at https://support.earth2.io . 

Some features and components were also intentionally left out of this initial release of the Resource system. The function of raiding and losing O.U.’s has been excluded in this version and is planned to be added in the next version instead. Raiding E-ther and losing E-ther will continue to function as per the existing mechanics. 

The Weaver which has been revealed in previous announcements will also be released in a later version of the system to allow for the complexities of the feature. The Weaver, along with Essence, is essential for crafting raw materials from collected Resource O.U.’s and is, therefore, something Players should look forward to. 

Closing Thoughts 
The Earth 2 EcoSim Resource System marks a significant stride in our long term vision, laying a powerful foundation for an expansive, player-driven geolocational Metaverse. This intricate system marks the beginning of a new era. It forms the backbone of Earth 2’s evolving EcoSim, enabling Players to harness and optimise resources that will ultimately shape the world around them. With each new component, from Prospecting Cydroids to Resource Occurrence Units, we’re moving closer to an ecosystem where strategic depth, collaboration, and innovation become the driving forces.

As Earth 2 enters this new phase, Players are invited to transform not just properties, but legacies—are you mining the foundations to build a dynasty, securing a platform that will help you join, form, or even make or break alliances, or are you solely determined on creating bustling centres of trade and commerce? These early steps hint at the opportunities that lie ahead, paving the way for megacities, trade empires, and new forms of global cooperation, or domination, and at the centre of it all is the ever-expanding utility and need of Power, the need of Essence. 

The next EcoSim era has dawned, bringing a world rich with possibilities for those ready to lead, build, and lay down their mark in history inside Earth 2 forever.

We’ll leave you with a unique insight—a glimpse we may not make so easily available very often, so consider this a rare opportunity to gauge the current status of accumulated O.U.’s globally. We present, the current aggregated total of O.U.’s stored across Earth 2:

In 2025 we plan to embark on the next step of the EcoSim journey with the introduction of Raw Material production using Essence, Transportation, Building Blocks, Logistics and the very first Buildings!

We thank our community for your unwavering support, commitment, and passion as we embark on this journey together and continue to develop the Geolocational Metaverse – Earth 2.

Stay tuned as we continue to unlock Earth 2’s vast potential—one step at a time!


November 20, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – We’re pleased to introduce the Creation Process Series, a behind-the-scenes look at the meticulous process of creating our unique 3D assets here at Earth 2. This series highlights key moments condensed from hours of recorded footage, demonstrating the dedication and artistry involved in crafting characters, objects and creatures for the Earth 2 Metaverse which have originated from our internal concept art pipeline. The first video in this series focuses on the Skeleton Warrior, one of the first revealed enemy units designed and developed for Earth 2 Hordes and the open E2V1 world.

Why We’re Creating This Series
The Creation Process Series aims to give our community insight into the work that goes into building Earth 2. Over the years, we’ve received questions and, at times, accusations of “asset flipping,” a practice where pre-made and often stolen assets are reused in games.

To clarify, it is understandable for projects to use pre-made assets as placeholders to quickly prototype—something we occasionally do at Earth 2, so long as we have legally purchased or obtained the rights to use them. However, we’d like to make it clear that Earth 2 invests a significant amount of time, effort and funds into designing and developing our own custom characters, objects, and creatures, effectively creating our own IP for Earth 2. While there may be some exceptions we make for the use of external assets, so long as we have obtained the legal rights to do so and it aligns with our desired result, the vast majority of final assets used by us inside E2V1 are unique and custom-made by our talented team of artists and developers.

This video series is our way of showcasing the effort behind the scenes for those curious about our work. While we’re releasing this first video now, it’s important to note that it was recorded months ago, and we already have six more videos finished and ready for release. Often what you see now is not always what the team has been actively working on over the past few days, weeks and possibly months.

Creating assets like the Skeleton Warrior is a direct result of funds raised from cosmetic skin sales—just as we promised. These funds allow us to expand our development efforts and build the essential pieces needed to bring Earth 2 to life and make it a unique place – so thank you for the support!

The 3D Asset Creation Process
Each of our 3D assets is created through a detailed, multi-step process to ensure quality, originality, and functionality within the Earth 2 Metaverse. Below, we break down the steps that went into creating characters like the Skeleton Warrior after the concept art pipeline was approved:

1. High-Poly Sculpting in ZBrush
Base Mesh Creation:
Use ZSpheres for quick blocking of proportions for bones (Skeletons) or humanoid shapes (Zombies).
Alternatively, start with a pre-made base mesh for faster workflows.
Dynamesh the Base Mesh:
Merge ZSpheres into a single sculptable mesh using Dynamesh. Adjust resolution for detailed sculpting.
Primary Shapes:
Use tools like ClayBuildup or Move to shape major forms.
Focus on skeletal structures for Skeletons and muscle or decay layers for Zombies.
Secondary Details:
Add cracks, chips, and anatomical details for Skeletons. Sculpt decayed skin and wounds for Zombies.
Tertiary Details:
Fine textures like pores, scars, and wrinkles. Incorporate accessories or clothing remnants using ZBrush’s tools.
Polish and Optimize:
Use ZRemesher for better topology and ensure the model is game-ready.
2. Retopology in Maya
Export High-Poly Mesh:
Optimize using Decimation Master in ZBrush and export for handling in Maya.
Retopology:
Use Maya’s Quad Draw to create a clean low-poly mesh.
Ensure proper edge loops for smooth deformation in joints.
Optimize Mesh:
Target optimal poly counts (~20k triangles).
Check for clean topology and avoid unnecessary geometry.
UV Unwrapping:
Use Maya’s UV Editor for unwrapping with priority on detailed areas like faces and wounds.
Ensure even texel density and organized UV islands.
3. Baking and Texturing in Substance Painter
Bake High-Poly Details:
Import low- and high-poly meshes into Substance Painter.
Bake Normal, AO, and Curvature maps to transfer details from the high-poly model.
Base Textures:
Use smart materials for base layers (bone for Skeletons, skin for Zombies).
Detail Painting:
Add dirt, decay, and damage using procedural masks and custom brushes.
Final Effects:
Create glowing eyes or wet effects with emissive and roughness maps.
Export Textures:
Generate game-ready textures (Albedo, Normal, Roughness, etc.) at appropriate resolutions.
Earth 2’s 3D Asset Pipeline Starts with Concept Art
As previously outlined in our articles, video descriptions, and announcements, every 3D asset at Earth 2 begins its journey with concept art, which serves as the foundation of our creative process. The initial design is drafted by our concept artists and undergoes multiple reviews and iterations to ensure it aligns with Earth 2’s vision and aesthetic. Once finalised and approved, the design progresses to the next stage of the pipeline: 3D modelling.

A Streamlined Process
Concept Art: Initial designs are created, reviewed, and refined until final approval.

3D Modelling: The approved concept is sculpted into a high-poly model, then optimized into a low-poly version for game performance. The 3D modeller has some freedom to change or improve the look so long as they stay close to the original approved concept art.

UV Mapping and Texturing: The 3D team finalizes the model with detailed UV mapping and texture baking, ensuring a polished look.

Skinning, Rigging, and Weight Painting: Models are prepared for animation by adding skeletons and weights for proper movement.

Animation and QA: Rigged models are tested with animations, reviewed for issues like clipping, and fine-tuned for flawless performance.

Final Approval: A game developer ensures the asset is fully optimised and ready for integration into E2V1.

For those interested, here is the original concept art for our Skeleton Warrior. As mentioned earlier, our 3D modellers are granted some flexibility to enhance or refine the asset’s design, provided it stays true to the original concept. When compared to the video below, you’ll notice that the 3D modeller made a few minor adjustments to the design in certain in some areas.

Overall, you can see that the end result matches closely with the original concept art.

What’s Next
The Skeleton Warrior is just the beginning of this series and as mentioned, this video is the first in a lineup of six more showcasing the creation of other 3D assets and other characters that will populate Earth 2. These videos not only highlight the progress we’ve made but also demonstrate our commitment to original, high-quality asset creation and establishing our own IP for Earth 2.

We hope this series offers valuable insight to those interested in our process and reassures our community of the authenticity and effort behind every character and object our team creates. Stay tuned as we continue to release more videos showcasing the artistry and dedication that will slowly form the Earth 2 Metaverse!

Watch the first video now and step inside the world of Earth 2’s asset creation process!


November 26, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Welcome to Earth 2 Hordes Combat Mechanics Volume 2! In this article, we’re excited to highlight some of the updates our team has been testing for the Earth 2 Hordes mini-game. These developments are not only integral to Earth 2 Hordes but will also play a crucial role in the broader open world of E2V1.
As a reminder, the footage featured in this video represents unfinished, work-in-progress updates – they are not a polished end product! The purpose of this footage release is to provide our community with an inside look at what some of the team members have been working on and the progress they’ve made.
Earth 2 Hordes and the Future of E2V1
Earth 2 is building a geolocational metaverse, a 1:1 scale digital Earth that is geologically accurate and reset to pristine condition. Players can own their own part of this world via land ownership which already provides various forms of utility, such as mining E-ther, extracting 32 different resources, collecting Jewels, launching raids, and more.
We envision Earth 2 as a metaverse with diverse opportunities, from manufacturing, trade, and construction in the EcoSim to hosting games and experiences, all with the ability to take place on Player-owned land. Mini-games like Earth 2 Hordes are designed specifically to expand utility for land, Essence, and Resources. We want landowners to eventually have the ability to host games on their properties, set prizes, and even charge entry fees should they wish to do so.
In the short term, this approach enables us to continue to build, test, and refine key systems we are going to need as we progress toward our unchanged long-term vision – a metaverse based on the real world filled with megacities, alliances, retail, commerce, and countless other opportunities.
Key Updates in Combat Mechanics Volume 2
As noted earlier, it is important to emphasise that this video showcases unfinished, work-in-progress updates to our combat system. Its purpose is to offer our community insight into what we are currently focusing on and how these systems are evolving. To provide additional context, we will include a brief explanation for each feature demonstrated in the video. Please also keep in mind that the footage featured was recorded approximately 7 weeks ago.

Health, Stamina, and Mana
Progress continues on the health and stamina bar systems, with the addition of a Mana bar to expand gameplay mechanics. If you observe the stamina bar closely, you’ll notice that stamina decreases when the avatar performs special attacks or runs at high speed. Once the stamina bar is fully depleted, the Player will no longer be able to run fast or execute special attacks until they either rest or acquire a stamina potion to replenish it.

AI Perimeter Detection
Our team has been actively developing and testing AI perimeter detection to enhance enemy responsiveness. This system enables AI enemy units to react dynamically to their surroundings, such as detecting nearby threats – in this case, the avatar. Various scenarios have been tested, including the avatar being detected when in close proximity. The avatar can also be detected at a distance as is demonstrated in the final battle scene of the video, where Skeleton Warrior enemy AI engages upon visually detecting the avatar from afar.

Unit Collisions
In the video, you may notice zombies physically pushing the avatar during interactions. This highlights that unit collisions are active across all entities on the terrain and have been successfully integrated into the multiplayer environment. Not showcased in Vol.2, following the recording of this video, we implemented additional scripts to disable collisions during special attacks. This adjustment allows the avatar to attack seamlessly through groups of enemies without interference.

Updated Katana VFX
As promised in Combat Mechanics Volume 1, new visual effects (VFX) for the Katana have been implemented. The Dash and Slash, Combo Strike, and Skyfall Strike all feature updated VFX, adding a more polished feel. We were also testing Area of Effect (AoE) mechanics specifically for the Combo Strike at the time of recording.

AI Reactive Enemy Speed
Our team has been testing reactive speed mechanics for enemy AI, where units dynamically adjust their movement speed based on their proximity to the avatar. For example, the zombie begins with a slower run but transitions to a faster pace when the avatar speeds up and attempts to gain distance. This creates a more engaging and realistic chase dynamic during combat encounters.

Mixed Enemy Units
The footage also includes early testing of mixed enemy units engaging the avatar simultaneously. This allowed us to evaluate how different enemy types interact in combat and how they contribute to the overall gameplay experience when fighting together.

Enemy Item Drops
During the video, you may notice enemies dropping items upon being defeated. This was part of testing an early version of the enemy drop system, which will serve as the foundation for all future drops, including weapons, skins, and other unique objects. This system is designed to enrich gameplay by providing tangible rewards for defeating enemies.

Zombie Development and Animations
A significant amount of effort goes into the creation of every asset within Earth 2.  In Creation Process Volume 1, we showcased the extensive work involved in crafting an enemy like the Skeleton Warrior. However, the process doesn’t stop there – these creations must also undergo rigging, animation, AI programming, and numerous other steps. Many of our processes and pipelines have been detailed in previous articles and videos, highlighting the depth and complexity required to bring these characters to life.

Zombie Animations
The following animations were created specifically for the Zombie:

Fidget
Jump Attack
Knockback
Run Attack
Idle
Attack 3
Battle Roar
Left Dodge
Left Walk
Right Dodge
Right Walk
Attack 1
Death
Left Run
Right Run
Forward Run
Turn Left
Get Hit
Turn Right
Backward Dodge
Forward Walk
While creating these custom animations requires a substantial investment of time and effort, they play a crucial role in enhancing the overall battle experience for the Player. These animations will be progressively integrated into enemy AI, adding depth and dynamism to combat encounters.

Zombie Mechanics
In addition to its custom animations, the development team implemented various mechanics for the Zombie, including dynamic speed, health, attack values, buffs, and item drops. While the Zombie may have lower health compared to other enemy units, its speed and strength in numbers – particularly when blending into a crowd – make it a formidable threat. Players who find themselves surrounded by a group of Zombies risk taking significant damage, especially if they lose control of the situation.

Looking Ahead
The updates shown in Combat Mechanics Volume 2 are not only vital for Earth 2 Hordes but also contribute to the foundation of E2V1’s open-world systems. These developments align with our long-term vision of a metaverse rich with opportunities for Players to create, trade, and compete.

In Combat Mechanics Volume 3, we’ll be introducing:

a new weapon type
a new enemy unit
a sneak peek at the highly anticipated Power Strike, a feature specifically teased at by the Earth 2 Founder in the Combat Mechanics Vol.1 article that will transform the combat system and elevate gameplay to new heights.
Thank you for your continued support as we work to bring the vision of Earth 2 to life. Together, we’re shaping the future of the metaverse one step at a time. Stay tuned!


December 1, 2024 – Sydney, Australia – Welcome to the fifth and final installment in the Earth 2 Megacities and Tile Art series. This series has been a celebration of the creativity and vision of our community, showcasing Player-owned properties, planned megacities, and intricate tile art displayed in our developing 1:1 scale digital Earth, Earth 2 Version 1 (E2V1).

This video series was created as a tribute to Player Creativity in response to requests from our community members eager to see their properties rendered inside E2V1. We’ve curated this showcase to highlight some of the locations submitted by Land Owners on some of our Social accounts.

What’s Impressive About This Footage?
All footage has been recorded in real-time, directly from our 510,072,000 km² digital Earth, a geologically accurate 1:1 scale replica of the real world. The technical achievements behind this showcase are a testament to the power and possibilities of the Earth 2 Engine. 

Here are some of the key highlights worth taking note of while viewing the footage:

Perfectly Positioned Tiles on Geologically Accurate Terrain
This footage highlights the precision with which thousands of Player-owned tiles and flags are displayed simultaneously on screen in real-time.
The terrain you see in the footage is not procedurally generated terrain but rather geologically accurate terrain formations where each tile is mapped with exact precision, matching real-world topography. This alone is a feat that required extensive technological development and remains a standout feature of Earth 2.
Streaming Thousands of Tiles in Real-Time
The ability to stream thousands of approximately 19mx19m tiles in real-time, with perfect accuracy, and each with their own set of datapoints which help to display property borders, flag types, location details and ownership.
The footage demonstrates how our engine can handle immense amounts of data while maintaining seamless performance with aesthetically acceptable visuals. This level of precision ensures that every Player’s property is displayed exactly as intended, even when viewed from impressive view distances.
Impressive View Distances from High Altitudes
The footage showcases Player tiles rendered and streamed from well above the Earth’s surface, providing breathtaking perspectives on large-scale megacities and tile art. The ability to seamlessly display this scale and accuracy at such altitudes demonstrates the robustness and scalability of our evolving engine.
Terrain Collision, Biomes and Property Data
In each megacity featured in the footage, we try to highlight several key technological achievements. The camera typically zooms in, placing an avatar or vehicle onto the terrain, showcasing the ability of our engine to handle real-time interaction with geologically accurate terrain. While moving in real-time, we toggle various systems such as biomes (trees, bushes, grass), seasons, flags, and property data, demonstrating the seamless operation of these massive data systems in real time.
This process highlights not only the precision of the engine but also its power and responsiveness. Viewers can see the terrain collision which enables avatars or vehicles to be placed anywhere in the 510,072,000km2 world and interact naturally with the environment. This terrain collision demonstrates a strong foundation for future gameplay mechanics.
Additionally, during avatar drops, we demonstrate further interactivity with features such as Cydroids. The avatar’s plasma gun or rocket launcher can target and engage these entities, as well as interact directly with the terrain, emphasising the engine’s ability to manage dynamic, real-time interactions while rendering massive datasets like biomes, terrain and property details.
While some of the capabilities mentioned above may appear standard in general game development, their implementation within a 510,072,000 km² geographically accurate map presents significantly greater challenges.

Earth 2’s ability to achieve this emphasises the innovation at the heart of Earth 2’s development and demonstrates the platform’s technical sophistication providing a glimpse of the possibilities that await Players in the vast, immersive world of E2V1 as our team continue to develop, expand and improve.

Video Footage from Volume 5 and previous Volumes 1-4
Player owned Earth 2 Megacities & Tile Art – Vol.5 (4K)

In volume 5 you will find over 17 minutes of first time footage showcasing 10 new Megacity and Tile Art locations inside E2V1. There are some really amazing results so we highly recommend checking it out!

In Volume 5 we are showcasing Player owned properties inside:

Bitcoin Island submitted by JOLLY ROGER
Nautical Tileart submitted by Concherors
Cradle-Earth submitted by DVDRUN3N
Madara City submitted by Madara
Twin Islands submitted by Gian Master of Evolve
Male, Maldives submitted by Gian Master of Evolve
Diamond City submitted by TheAlliance 
The Great Sword of Valhalla tile art submitted by RealMofFantasy
Elite City submitted by MarsBar / Elite City
Kraken Yacht Club submitted by Concherors
If you’ve missed it or simply want to rewatch the other videos in the series, we have listed them below, along with the Megacities/tile arts that are featured. If you have enjoyed the series, don’t forget to subscribe to our channel and let us know in the comments what your favourite part of the video was! 

Player owned Earth 2 Megacities & Tile Art – Vol.4 (4K)

In Volume 4 we are showcasing Player owned properties inside:

Emporia – The Shopping Hub of Earth 2 submitted by PREDICT
Legacy of Bermuda submitted by Legacy of Bermuda 
BETH-SHALOM Megacity
Obsidian City submitted by OBSIDIAN
Capri Island made by the Italian Community submitted by Zayko the Pirate
Earth 2 Lone Wolves Tile Art submitted by LaroTayoPh 
Hippoland Megacity submitted by hippo48 
Player owned Earth 2 Megacities & Tile Art – Vol. 3 (4K)

In Volume 3 we are showcasing Player owned properties inside:

Legacy of Bermuda submitted by Legacy of Bermuda
Ajin T1 City. submitted by FRONTMAN
Ajin T2 City submitted by FRONTMAN 
Ajin T3 City submitted by FRONTMAN
Ajin Casino City submitted by FRONTMAN
Player owned Earth 2 Megacities & Tile Art – Vol.2

In Volume 2 we are showcasing thousands of properties inside:

Minde Islands submitted by MORPHEUS
AGV’s San Marino submitted by butt
State1 submitted by NEWTON
Interlaken, Switzerland submitted by tipsysound
Essence Island submitted by Seychelles
Omega City submitted by Predict
Yehna’s Island – submitted by Yehna
Valetta submitted by WhiteFume
A look at Player owned tiles inside E2V1 – an Earth 2 Community Tribute

In Volume 1 we have showcased :

Talsaland, submitted by Carl
Christmas Island, submitted by Carl
Eye of Ra, submitted by Mr Green
The Towers, submitted by Steve Mcreeve
The Capital City, submitted by Ume
Twin City, submitted by Ume
Capital Megacity, submitted by Windmoon
Gozo, submitted by db87
Unknown, submitted db87
Skull Island, submitted by PirateSR
Valhalla Vikings Megacity, submitted by Yehna
Mariehamn, Aland Islands – submitted by Yehna
Unknown, submitted by LaroTayoPh
Shoon City, submitted by Pacey
A Look Ahead
We’d like to thank our community for providing such amazing content! It has been a privilege to bring this series to life, highlighting the incredible creativity and vision of our community. The possibilities for transforming megacities, tile art, and properties into dynamic, interactive experiences are endless.

Our team is heavily focused on the public release of E2V1, scheduled for January 2025. As a result, we appreciate your understanding regarding the reduced frequency of updates recently and during this critical development period. We are sure our community would like to get their hands on E2V1 above all other things at this point in time!

With E2V1’s release approaching, Volume 5 will serve as the final installment in this series for the time being as soon Players will be able to record their own footage and content directly within the platform! Having said this, we may revisit this series in the future to highlight new megacity developments and tile art updates as the world of Earth 2 continues to evolve.

April 6, 2025 – Sydney, Australia – Earth 2 is preparing to welcome its very first inhabitants leading into Chapter 1 Pre-Alpha release “Explore. Craft. Survive.” With the introduction of the Character Synthesis system inside E2V1, the first true spark of life is preparing to ignite the activity inside the geolocational Metaverse of Earth 2. This foundational system signifies more than just the ability to control an avatar, it represents the beginning of lifeforms, one born from the ownership of land, the technology of the Mentar and the enigmatic resource known as E-ther.

This feature release will allow Players to breathe life into characters that can explore, survive, interact, and grow within an un-spoilt, 1:1 scale virtual Earth. These characters are beings that will face consequence, mortality and purpose.

Before exploring the detailed mechanics of this system, it is important to provide clarity around the philosophy and expectations behind it and other early system designs emerging inside E2V1. Earth 2 is not a typical video game; it is a visual platform with a living, evolving world undergoing continual development and refinement. The sheer scale and complexity of simulating a persistent, globally scaled metaverse introduces a level of unpredictability that demands ongoing balance.

As such, while every effort will be made to ensure that our features and systems for this feature release, but also others both historically and in the future, are stable, it is important to acknowledge that changes may be necessary over time. Game balancing – especially on a metaverse scale of this magnitude – can take years. There will be adjustments. But any modifications will be made with careful consideration and a commitment to the long-term stability of the platform.

Life Begins: Synthesising Your Character
The time has come to give birth to the first inhabitants of Earth 2. With the rollout of the Character Synthesis system, players will be granted the ability to create their own lifeforms – characters that will walk, live, struggle, and thrive across the expansive 510,072,000 km2 lands and seas of this pristine digital Earth.

The act of creating life in Earth 2 carries weight. It brings with it the need for responsibility, care, and survival. Characters are mortal. They can die. Their lives can be cut short by reckless choices, environmental dangers, neglect or sometimes just bad luck.

But if players approach their journey with mindfulness and purpose, their characters have the chance to go on to live long, meaningful and productive lives. Life inside Earth 2 is intended to have value. It is meant to accentuate experiences inside E2V1 making them more significant and to make actions more deliberate given those decisions can often face consequences. Essentially, the presence of risk – and the opportunity for potential reward – injects true purpose into every decision and true care for every action.

This is the beginning of digital sentience within Earth 2. The act of synthesis is not a click or a casual function – it is a moment of creation and you as the Player are in control. The very first breath of life into a world long silent. A future defined by every player’s action, one life at a time.

E-ther is Life
Since its discovery, E-ther has been a curious and mysterious substance in Earth 2. Known to naturally evaporate from Player owned land and to possibly appear from other sources inside E2V1, it has become one of the most important elements in the metaverse. While players have learned to capture and transform it into Essence – a power source with tradeable utility – E-ther’s true potential has always hinted at something deeper.

Now, that potential is slowly being realised. E-ther is alive.

To synthesise a character – a lifeform with a tangible presence inside Earth 2 – Players will need to use E-ther as the fundamental catalyst. The initial lifeform they create will be known as an E-ther lifeform, unique in its origin and tied intrinsically to the land and systems from which it was born.

Character synthesis requires a Mentar located on Tier 2 land or higher. However, the process is not limited to what a Mentar holds locally. Instead, Players can draw from their global aggregate balance of E-ther to perform the synthesis. This allows flexibility in how and where a Player chooses to create life so long as they have the correct Tier land and Mentar available.

During synthesis, Players will also be able to choose the biological archetype of their new lifeform – selecting between XX and XY E-ther-based genetic lifeforms. This choice may have future implications as the metaverse continues to expand and evolve.

The introduction of E-ther lifeforms adds depth to the lore of Earth 2 while reinforcing the notion that life within this world is not without cost and not without meaning.

In a world where everything is connected – land, energy, matter, and soul – E-ther is the invisible strand that binds lifeforms together. Through it, Players do not just create avatars. They create possibilities.

Synthesis Rates and Economic Balancing
Creating life inside Earth 2 is not a flat transaction. It is governed by a carefully constructed internal algorithm that introduces dynamic pricing based on a Base Synthesisation Value, or BSV. This BSV is linked directly to the external traded value of Essence – the more valuable Essence becomes, the less E-ther is required to synthesise a character, and vice versa. It’s a self-balancing economic loop that maintains equilibrium between what will become some of Earth 2’s most vital resources.

While some Players may be able to determine what the BSV is, it is not publicly published and may be changed from time to time. If the actual BSV is changed, it will be clearly communicated to Players. It is important to note, however, that routine fluctuations in the E-ther amount to synthesise life, in the absence of any such announcement, will solely reflect real-time changes in the external value of Essence.

Not all land is created equal, the amount of E-ther needed to synthesise a character also varies depending on the Tier and Class of the land your Mentar is located on. Tier 2 land will require 100% E-ther based on the BSV, serving as the baseline for comparison. Other land classes – such as Tier 1 with premium tile classes – will offer reductions to this base cost, rewarding strategic land holders of their acquisition and ownership.

Importantly, every unit of E-ther used to synthesise a character is automatically transformed into Essence and permanently burned at a rate of 100%. This rate may change in the future but for now will remain at 100% burn. This not only introduces a deflationary mechanic to the system but also reinforces the significance and permanence of the act of creation. When you choose to create life, that decision not only brings new opportunities but echoes throughout the economy.

To provide a guideline to Players, at the current external value of Essence at $0.0367 it would require approximately 21 E-ther to synthesise a character. This amount of E-ther will reduce if the value of Essence increases or increase if the value of Essence decreases so long as the BSV is not adjusted.

Free to Play: A Cooperative Path to Life
Free to Play on Earth 2 is more than access – it’s a cooperative opportunity wrapped in trust, merit, and reward. Synthesising a character costs E-ther, but Players who own Tier 1 land can go one step further and offer a lifeline by providing the necessary E-ther for another Player to create a character. In doing so, they effectively sponsor a new life inside Earth 2.

Characters synthesised under this system are initially bound to the landowner-Player who provided the E-ther. The Free to Play player gains control of the character and can begin experiencing Earth 2 immediately – but while they are free to do as they please, complete freedom of their lifeform must be earned.

Qualifying landowners have the option to set a quest or bounty – perhaps collecting specific materials, supplies or items, returned to a specific location. Whatever the quest is, once it is fulfilled, the free to play character then becomes unbound and fully independent – free so to speak. Until the quest or bounty is successfully completed, the landowner may set percentage based royalties on any gathered resources, materials or items the bound Player acquires during their time with the sponsored character. Though optional, the landowner may even enforce a time limit to complete the quest, which if ignored or abandoned, may see the character face death.

This system gives rise to a real economy of economy and opportunity. Players with higher class Tier 1 land can have more freedom to set filters for sponsors based on historical performance. Free to Play players who reliably complete quests will build a positive rating, granting them access to higher-tier landowners and more rewarding opportunities.

The first wave of quests will be relatively simple – gathering materials or crafting supplies and returning them to a set location – but the system will grow in sophistication over time as the platform expands. In time, the idea is for it to encompass building, land management and other cooperative world shaping responsibilities.

It is important to note that the Free to Play feature will not be a part of the first release, but rather released in a future version once the foundations of the Character synthesising system have been thoroughly tested and optimised.

Free to Play Players will be able to view a lobby system and execute global searches to identify the Quests, Tiers, Classes, Locations and more, that may appeal to them. Players will also be able to search by EPL so EPL owners can offer specific Quests on a property and promote it externally as well.

In Earth 2, your freedom is earned, your reputation is built, and your journey is forged by the choices you make.

Below is a chart outlining some of the differences Mentars on varying land tier and classes will be able to provide.

Synthesis Amount – The amount of E-ther required to synthesise a character

Synthesise (Weekly) – Number of characters that can be synthesised on relevant Mentar weekly.

Quest – Whether the tier and class is able to set quests in return for free to play character creation.

Quest Type – The different types of materials or quest types available to be set by the Mentar.

Quantity – the quantity of material, items or products set in the quest and the maximum reward possible for the materials or quests.

Player History – Ability to filter player performance history in order to attract Players who have a better history of play and higher chance of successfully fulfilling the quest while also being able to offer better rewards.

Protection – the protection level a Mentar is able to provide to Players that set up Campfires on the relevant property.

Please note that Quest, Quest Type, Quantity and Player History will be part of a subsequent feature release when free to play becomes available.

Vitals: Health, Stamina, Hunger, Thirst
Every character in Earth 2 will initially be governed by four vital stats: Health, Stamina, Hunger, and Thirst. 

Health represents the character’s overall vitality. It can initially be depleted through fall damage, combat, starvation, dehydration or exhaustion.
Stamina fuels movement and high physical activity. When stamina runs out, any continued exertion begins to drain health.
Hunger reflects the need for food. Once depleted, it slowly chips away at health.
Thirst tracks hydration. Like hunger, if ignored, it leads to a gradual loss of life.
Players must carefully manage these vitals. Venture too far without food or water, and your journey may end prematurely. Foraging, crafting, and planning ahead are essential to the survival of your character.

Exploration, Materials, and Crafting
With life synthesised, your journey truly begins. Earth 2’s digital world spans over 510,072,000km2, an accurate mirror of real world geography, yet reset to a pristine state. This untouched canvas is rich with discovery, and survival will hinge on a Player’s ability to forage, craft and adapt.

Over 200 materials will be discoverable across the map at launch. These survival ingredients will gradually expand into a variety of gameplay. Early on, crafting will focus on simple recipes to help players survive, navigate and expand their reach.

Some crafted items will be possible directly from a Mentar, helping players get their footing by converting gathered materials into usable items.

Early Items
To support survival and initial exploration, Earth 2 will allow players to craft a variety of essential gear using materials found in the wild. This includes:

Backpack (for inventory space)
Bottle (for carrying water)
Hat, Shirt, Pants, and Shoes (basic clothing set)
Campfire (temporary save point)
Food (to restore sustenance)
Glider and Wingsuit (for mobility and leisure)
There will also be some additional items – currently unrevealed – which will be discoverable by curious and resourceful Players. Recipes for these hidden items must be unlocked through experimentation and adventure.

Cosmetic Skins
Cosmetic skins remain a key component of Player identity inside Earth 2. However, as always planned, to wear a cosmetic outfit, Players must first equip a full set of basic clothing: hat, shirt, pants, and shoes. Once the character is fully clothed, a full-body cosmetic skin can be applied.

Initially, outfit changes will be handled through Mentars. Future updates will introduce portable devices that allow for outfit switching without needing to return to a property.

While modular clothing (individual swappable pieces) is planned, the first iteration will focus on full-skin suits, with more flexibility arriving in future updates.

Death: Consequence in the Metaverse
In Earth 2, life is fragile and death can be permanent. The metaverse is vast, untamed, and teeming with dangers. A character’s death can occur in numerous ways: from tumbling down a steep mountain slope, to succumbing to hunger or dehydration, to being struck down by wild creatures or hostile foes. Even environmental threats like exhaustion or exposure can lead to a character’s end.

When death occurs, the tile on which your character dies is recorded and the consequences that follow are significant. If the player chooses not to revive, or does not have enough E-ther on their character to do so, the character will die permanently on that spot. All of that character’s inventory will remain discoverable on that tile for 24 hours, and if not retrieved within that time period, it will be lost forever.

Items dropped may include valuable resources: E-ther, Essence, energy, materials, wearables, crafted items, or jewels – almost everything except for cosmetic skins which will remain with the Player. The option of revival at least gives the Player a choice to instantly revive their character, but if this option is not selected other Players who may happen to explore that tile during the grace period may be able to loot those items for themselves so don’t wait too long before recovering your items!

This mechanic is intended to make death meaningful, even punishing. In Earth 2, recklessness comes with consequences. The metaverse can be a dangerous place and even if your character dies from a bug, it still counts as death. Not even we can reverse it.

Mentar Save
The most secure way to protect your character’s existence is by saving it inside a Mentar. These structures have the ability to serve as stasis chambers – places where life can be preserved indefinitely. Each Mentar can only house one saved character at a time, and only characters owned by the landowner may be stored. Free to Play characters cannot currently be saved in Mentars.

There are no expiration timers or ticking clocks. Once stored, a character can remain inside a Mentar indefinitely with all of its inventory, awaiting reactivation. This becomes especially useful for Players who want to explore with different characters in different locations or who need to pause gameplay without risking their progress or survival for that character.

Mentars will remain the primary method of long-term character storage until future EcoSim buildings expand on this functionality.

Campfire: Temporary Survival in the Wild
For those who don’t own land or are venturing far from home, the Campfire offers a vital lifeline. A Campfire allows characters to be saved temporarily and can be built on both unowned and owned land.

On unowned land, a Campfire lasts for 24 hours but can be looted by other Players if discovered. On player owned properties, this default lifespan extends to 72 hours, offering a much needed buffer for exploration and more importantly can offer default protection against looters which increases based on the Tier land and class you set the Campfire on. Campfires built on someone else’s land may incur a fee set by the property owner which will be displayed before the Player tries to build the Campfire.

Each Campfire, whether on owned or unowned land, can store one character and is limited to one specific tile. Larger properties will be able to host multiple Campfires at a rate one per every 10 tiles – allowing well established landowners to support explorers, allies, or even entire small communities.

But beware, if your Campfire goes out before you return to re-spawn your character, that character dies, and its inventory is left behind on that tile until it is collected, looted or perished.

Re-Spawning
Players can synthesise unlimited Characters inside Earth 2 which will remain alive so long as they are in an active, alive state or safely stored in a Mentar or Campfire. However, only one character can be controlled at any given time.

To manage this, Players will use the in game Character Management system. This interface will allow Players to search and locate their saved characters by name, location, Mentar or Campfire tile. From there, they can re-spawn any living character and take control of it to resume activities inside Earth 2.

Re-spawning a saved character does not require any E-ther.

Characters that have died will appear under a separate filter, allowing Players to confirm their death and identify the precise location of any dropped inventory.

Revival
If a character dies while actively being played, Players will have a brief 2 minute window to initiate a revival. This revival comes at a cost of double the E-ther required to synthesise a character at that time. As is the case when a character is first synthesised, the E-ther used for revival is automatically transformed into Essence and 100% burned in full.

Another player nearby can also step in to revive your character using their own E-ther, offering moments of camaraderie, alliance, or perhaps even negotiation. But if no revival occurs within those two minutes – or if the player exits E2V1 during the countdown – the character dies permanently and the inventory will be dropped on that tile.

If a Player chooses revival, the Character returns with full health, stamina, hunger, and thirst.

App Crash or Connection Drop
Disconnection is a harsh reality in any online world, and Earth 2 has implemented safeguards to manage it.

If your app crashes or your internet connection drops while your character is alive, the system will detect this and begin a five-minute timeout countdown. If you do not reconnect within that timeframe, your character will die. 

In these cases, players will have up to 24 hours to revive their character at the standard revival cost. This ensures that technical issues don’t necessarily lead to permanent loss – but still remains a real threat.

Unfortunately, if your character is however killed within that countdown period the death process will be initiated which means you will need to recovery inventory before another Player looks or the 24 hour recovery window closes.

Day & Night Cycles
Time in Earth 2 is immersive, persistent, and localised. Once a player enters character mode, they are bound to the actual conditions of the region they are in inside E2V1. This includes the time of day, or night, and other possible conditions.

In free-fly mode, Players can experiment with environmental settings – adjusting sun angles, fog, waves, and more. But in character mode, they become fully immersed in the living simulation and are bound to the environment at that given time and location.

At launch, Earth 2 will implement 6-hour day-night cycles: 4 hours of day, followed by 2 hours of night. This results in four full E2V1 days every 24 real world hours.

Moon phases will also be meaningful, cycling every Earth day and will be important in future gameplay mechanics.

We will not be implementing seasonal changes that align with the real world at present, but will instead progressively test a randomised seasonal system where changes can occur rapidly and unexpectedly. This will allow for faster iteration and feedback in early development. In the future, we may align seasons with real-world hemispheres – but that decision remains open.

With the arrival of character synthesis, Earth 2 will mark a milestone transition from a vast world of potential to a world of life with all kinds of possibilities. Every decision now carries weight. Your actions, your creations, and your character’s fate will truly be in your hands!

Thank you for taking the time to read this article. We’re very excited about the future potential of the systems and mechanics provided in this article and the impact they may have long term for Earth 2.


​Earth2 Vlog 1 Transcript:

Welcome to the first installment of our developer blog, where we'll be providing periodic
updates and insight into key technical developments. These updates shed light on the
segments of our engineering team's focus and the prototypes they've been working on.

These vlogs will be limited to progress on developments we're comfortable sharing
publicly. For confidentiality reasons, they may not accurately reflect our active projects at
the time of publication. While some topics may represent work in progress and open
research, we aim to share our approach and, where feasible, explain our progress. We'll
delve into how we've tackled the broader rendering, persistence, and technical challenges
that will bring various aspects of Earth 2's metaverse to life.

One of the most exciting development areas for Earth 2 is our advanced terrain rendering
engine. This engine, crucial for our longer-term Phase 3 implementation plans, is a major
focus of our 3D open-world developmental roadmap. It's designed not only to support
real-time, photorealistic terrain and environment rendering on a large scale but also to
accurately reflect our real world's topology and locations.

To achieve this, we've crafted a high-performance proprietary rendering pipeline that
integrates height map data with clip mapping. We're exploring enhancements with the
integration of satellite imagery data. However, utilizing real-world satellite imagery data
directly presents challenges. Issues such as inconsistency in image quality and resolution,
exposure and white balance variations, shadows, and the presence of man-made
​structures make it impractical for Earth 2's metaverse.

In response, our R&D team has developed a prototype solution that synthesizes satellite
data on the fly, bypassing the need for costly oversized imagery data. This approach,
utilizing a parametric and procedural approach, allows us to change the terrain's
appearance in real time at scale while relying on height map data for visuals.

By deriving valuable information from the height data alone, such as surface detail,
steepness, and curvature, we can simulate the look of different geographical areas. Our use
of biome indexing enables us to display different visual parameters in real time at different
locations based on climate patterns, temperature, soil types, vegetation, and wildlife.

Our artists are optimizing parameters for each biome and programmatically comparing
results with reference satellite imagery data. The video showcases an animated terrain
height offset with static height-based parameters, illustrating the versatility of our
solution. Additionally, an early version of our atmospheric rendering solution is layered on
top, enhancing the overall visual experience.

It's important to note that the showcased work is in progress, a proof-of-concept
prototype by Earth 2. While it already looks fantastic, we're spotlighting an area of
approximately 600,000 square kilometers. Our dev team is intensely focused on delivering
a fully operational global version soon, marking a significant step toward introducing new
opportunities for interaction and gameplay on Earth 2.

​Earth2 Vlog 2 Transcript:

In this vlog, we're thrilled to introduce details about the first eco-sim building: the Water
Processor. This is the initial structure of many that we have meticulously designed and
planned to showcase over the coming weeks and months. The initial presentations will
focus on buildings in their Phase 2 model format, particularly relevant to the Earth 2
ecosim. However, we're excited to confirm that future showcases will unveil a diverse
array of buildings, including houses, shops, skyscrapers, transportation stations,
educational facilities, marketplaces, social hubs, vehicles, and more.

Our technical team has been diligently working on specialized proprietary technology.
This technology not only allows us to procedurally load and stream these buildings as 3D
objects in our massive one-to-one scale digital replication of planet Earth but also enables
lightning-fast processing and substantial player customization.

As shown in the footage, the specialized 3D object employs our proprietary shader system.
This system grants Earth 2 players an incredible level of surface customization for objects
they own. Our solution accommodates coloration adjustments on numerous visual
components and goes further by supporting alterations of surface types, such as metallic
or dielectric materials. Moreover, it provides controls for surface shininess, offering
players creative control over how each building is visually represented on their property.
Our proprietary technology supports tens of thousands of different buildings, each with
thousands of possible variations.

The variations of the Water Processor displayed in the video demonstrate how even a
simple Phase 2 building model can be player-customized to look distinct while
maintaining a desirable aesthetic appearance.

At Earth 2, we're building technology that goes beyond dropping a standard 3D model into
a single game environment. Our focus is on developing a solution that will stream millions
of 3D objects with varying appearances inside the massive open world of Earth 2. This
​includes not only buildings but also our open-world terrain engine. The end result will be
 an aesthetically consistent world that can efficiently support the streaming of an extensive
 variety of 3D objects with distinctive visual variation, including night scenes with
 customizable lights.

We're working toward a system that can show a proxy representation of
player-constructed content, and our current focus for buildings is on aesthetic variety and
customization on a massive world size scale. Each building inside Earth 2 will be heavily
customizable by players and will have multiple style variations, such as modern, sci-fi,
mythical, Asian, cyberpunk, brutalist, and many more.

Our system aims to become the nucleus for connecting players to an unimaginable number
of experiences both inside and outside of Earth 2. The technology we're developing, along
with our methods for building the geolocational metaverse, sets Earth 2 apart, placing it in

a league of its own.

To conclude this vlog, a few words about the Water Processor: it is among the first eco-sim
buildings a player can construct on their property, occupying a single tile of player-owned
land. The core purpose of the Water Processor is to refine fresh water into industrial
water, a crucial component for any production process and required for the construction
of most building blocks. The Water Processor is an essential building for any serious
eco-sim player.

Thank you for watching, and please stay tuned for further dev vlogs on other Phase 2
buildings. We'll provide information on how they'll be constructed, what they produce,
and the purposes they serve. In-game footage examples will also be shared, showcasing
mega cities visible from great distances, building style variations, different building types
streamed on a massive scale, and much more.
​Earth2 Vlog 3 Transcript:

In this vlog, we're excited to delve into details about the second ecosim building: the
Lignator. As part of our commitment to showcasing the various Phase 2 buildings, we plan
to reveal more structures over the coming weeks and months. Our aim is to familiarize
players with the look, feel, size, and purpose of each ecosim building.

Upon researching the Lignator blueprint in the research lab, players can place it on their
property as a hollow building. Subsequently, construction droids can be commanded to
use previously woven resources to complete the construction of the Lignator on their
property.

In its basic form, the Lignator will have a rectangular footprint spread across two tiles
located directly next to each other. This building can be loaded with wood and fresh water
to create construction wood building blocks. Construction wood will be a pivotal
requirement for almost every other eco-sim building, making it not only an important
building block overall but one that will be required early in the tech tree to progress in
creating other types of ecosim buildings.

At Earth 2, we strive to provide footage of exactly how 3D objects will appear in the game.
Expect these examples to look remarkable on a massive scale and be player-customizable
within the one-to-one scale 3D digital replication of the planet Earth that we're
developing.

It's crucial to understand that the buildings showcased are Phase 2 structures. Initially
intended for release in 2D on our webpage using our website map view for location-based
play, Phase 2 will now transition into our 3D world much earlier than originally planned.
This shift is a result of the remarkable progress made by our talented team in creating the
foundation for our digital Earth. Consequently, efforts are now directed toward releasing
the first version of E2 V1 earlier than anticipated, allowing us to introduce 3D gameplay
during Phase 2 as an ongoing work in progress. This approach enables us to share the
journey more closely with our players, building toward Phase 3 over the coming years.

Earth 2 is founded on the concept of real-world geo-locations corresponding to
user-generated digital environments. These environments can be bought, sold,
customized, and produce digital goods, including raw materials that can be copied from
​the geological and ecological footprint of a property. The ecosim will start with eight
 resource types that can be replicated into raw materials, with this list expanding over
 time. Every player-owned tile will have access to at least one resource, allowing
 replication into raw materials for creating building blocks via eco-sim buildings.

Building blocks, processed raw materials, play a crucial role inside and outside the
economic simulation. They are essential for the construction of buildings, and as the
ecosim advances into higher tiers, building blocks become more diversified, specialized,
and complex. Raw materials and building blocks hold fixed places in both the production
chain and the economy of Earth 2, with players able to transport and trade these resources
between one another.

This video also provides a sneak peek at one transportation method inside Earth 2, aptly
named the hover car. Subsequent videos will showcase additional vehicle types created for
various transportation methods.

We appreciate your time in watching this video and invite you to continue following us for
more upcoming details about Earth 2, the ecosim, and more.

​Earth2 Vlog 4 Transcript:

In this vlog, we're thrilled to unveil details about the third ecosim building: the Research
Lab. In its most basic form, the Research Lab boasts a small square-shaped footprint of
one tile and is the second eco-sim building in the tech tree, following the Mentor. It plays a
crucial role in the eco-sim ecosystem as it is required to research blueprints for the
construction of other basic eco-sim buildings.

The Research Lab, when constructed, also generates a contour survey report for each
researched blueprint. This report, coupled with the research blueprint, becomes essential
for constructing eco-sim buildings on the property where the Research Lab is located.
We're actively exploring ways to allow players to merge properties. If this feature is
released, players will be able to merge properties together, provided they are of the same
tier type. Until then, the size of the original property determines how many eco-sim
buildings it can support.

Every player will have the ability to acquire the blueprint for the Research Lab when
first-tier eco-sim buildings are released. The Mentor is a prerequisite for obtaining the
Research Lab blueprint. Currently, there is an option for mentors to be warped in on
player-owned properties for free, so we encourage players to take advantage of this option
and ensure they have a mentor on each property they own.

Once the player has the blueprint for the Research Lab, they need to place it on their
property and activate it as a hollow building. Following activation, construction droids are
commanded to use previously woven resources to complete the construction of the
functional physical building.

In the video, we showcase an example of the Water Processor, the Lignator, and the
Research Lab constructed in close proximity to each other. While the Research Lab can
serve other purposes, upgrades will be necessary to support higher-tier eco-sim buildings.
It has previously provided engineering for another important aspect of the Earth 2
eco-sim.

Transportation is a key component of the eco-sim, where many buildings process raw
materials into building blocks for constructing final products in Earth 2. Each eco-sim
building has limited storage for building blocks before needing to be moved to local
storage or transported to be traded elsewhere. Building blocks can also be transported
directly to an eco-sim hollow building, where construction droids can use them to
complete a building.
​Different types of transportation are suited to various vehicles, with considerations for
 cargo size and trip length. Earth 2 will introduce numerous vehicle types, each designed
 for specific purposes or cargo types. Vehicles will vary in attributes like acceleration, top
 speeds, reachability, cargo weight ratio, adding strategic considerations for players
 engaging in the eco-sim.

We firmly believe that a robust economic foundation is crucial for a metaverse, and the
Phase II eco-sim is our way of providing interactive, strategic, fun, and rewarding
gameplay with long-term relevance to our platform. As we progress toward our long-term
goals, which involve even bigger and better things, we appreciate your support.

Thank you for watching, and please join us on upcoming vlogs where we'll cover more
about building types, vehicle manufacturing, transportation types, construction droids,
battle vehicles, defense systems, and much more.
​Earth2 Vlog 5 Transcript:




In recent Earth 2 vlogs, our focus has been on ecosim buildings and the ongoing
development of E2V1, our one-to-one scale digital version of the planet Earth. While these
are exciting upcoming feature releases, we acknowledge that the short-term focus on them
has diverted attention from some of our other long-term goals. In light of this, we've
decided to shift our focus to residential and commercial-style buildings for Vlog Number
Six.

In this vlog, we present a modest commercial-style property that could represent part of a
bustling city. This serves as a visual example of how players can customize such a property
and how it would appear to others. We've chosen four buildings from a larger pool of
models yet to be showcased, sharing the same art style. However, we plan to release
numerous art styles per building type to support greater player expression, affiliation, and
creativity. Each art style will allow for additional types of customization.

To enhance the aesthetic appeal of the exterior building view, we've implemented interior
mapping. This technique, first published by J.V. Dongan in 2008, creates lookalike interiors
for buildings when rendering actual interiors at scale is too expensive. Our
implementation, different from most, calculates UV coordinates differently, allowing for
more performance and additional layers to display furniture and other elements in the
windows.

Commercial and residential buildings will primarily be constructed using building blocks
manufactured by player-operated eco-sim buildings. This introduces a hands-on
competitive and strategic level of gameplay, offering new opportunities within the Earth 2
metaverse.

Transportation and logistics play a significant role in the Earth 2 ecosim. Constructing
these buildings requires relevant building blocks and materials to be immediately
available at the location. Players will need to acquire a blueprint, place a hollow building
on the desired construction site, and ensure the correct construction droids are ready to
commence building with the relevant blocks.

Residential buildings will provide a personal space for players to customize their own
internal virtual environment, allowing them to store, host, interact with, and display
digital goods in a space they created. These virtual environments will be accessible by
entering the building. Additionally, we're exploring ideas such as residential buildings
participating in the ecosim by allowing players to adapt them to produce sycophants,
which will be needed to operate eco-sim buildings, drive transportation, navigate ships,
and more.

Commercial buildings, beyond their primary objective of linking real-world commercial
​experiences for Earth 2 players, will offer multi-purpose utility. They might train or
 educate a player's sycophants to determine career pathways, improving their efficiency
 and usefulness across various areas of the ecosim.

Different types of buildings will require players to achieve different levels of research
technology, unlocking the ability to create more advanced blueprints, construction droids,
and structures. Buildings at different technology levels will offer various utilities to the
owner, many of which will be options chosen by the player.

The Earth 2 ecosim aims to create a real-time logistical, player-driven economic
simulation, providing a unique, dynamic, and engaging trading environment across a
one-to-one scale digital replication of the planet Earth. The potential for conflict adds an
exciting dimension to this economic simulation.

Thank you for being part of our journey, and we invite you to share which country or city
you're planning to build your residential or commercial properties in first. We appreciate
your ongoing support and look forward to unveiling more details about the gold
polymerizer, the petrol processor, and more about Earth 2 Phase 2 and our ecosim in
upcoming vlogs.

​Earth2 Vlog 6 Transcript:

Welcome to Vlog Number 7, where we'll be introducing visuals and details about two new
ecosim buildings: the Petrol Processor and the Gold Polymerizer. Additionally, we'll share
further details about our Phase 2 ecosim.

The Petrol Processor is a Layer 2 building marking the beginning of the coatings
technology branch. To access its blueprint, players need to meet specific requirements,
including the release of Layer 2 of the ecosim, upgrading the research lab to Layer 2 on the
property, and the successful construction of the Lignitor, Petrifier, and Water Processor.
These three ecosim buildings do not have to exist on the same property but must exist
across any other properties owned by the player.

The Gold Polymerizer, also a Layer 2 building, belongs to the metallurgic chemistry
branch. Similar to the Petrol Processor, it has specific requirements for blueprint access,
including the release of Layer 2 of the ecosim, upgrading the research lab to Layer 2 on the
property, and the successful construction of the Water Processor.

Should a player deconstruct or sell a property with an eco-sim building that supports
another eco-sim building, all buildings supported by the now non-existing ecosym
building will cease to operate until the missing technology link is rebuilt.

After researching the blueprints for the Petrol Processor or the Gold Polymerizer, players
follow the standard construction process, placing a hollow building and commanding
construction droids to commence construction. Each building requires specific building
blocks and materials.

The Petrol Processor produces lacquers, coatings, and paint, including self-luminous paint,
using wood, limestone, industrial water, and refined oil. On the other hand, the Gold
Polymerizer produces gold bars using industrial water and gold.
Some eco-sim buildings can store a limited amount of produce locally, but excess building
blocks or raw materials will need transportation to other storage areas, properties,
construction sites, or trading hubs.

Customization is a key aspect of Earth 2, allowing players to edit and save customizations
on buildings, vehicles, and other assets they own. This freedom of expression supports
guild association, neighborhood synchronization, or personal preference.

During Phase 2.5, there will be a transition period from actions on the Earth2 website
reflecting in E2V1 to more direct interaction and experiences on E2V1. This will eventually
progress to first-person view and beyond as the development of E2V1 advances.

Essence, a valuable Earth 2 resource, plays a crucial role in powering various aspects of
the game. Players can power their mentors with essence at tweakable rates, adjusting the
​strategy for raw material replication or focusing more on ether to essence transformation.
 In the future, players can stake their essence to provide power support for other players
 or cities.

Thank you for watching another Earth 2 vlog, and please continue to follow us for more
details in upcoming vlogs, including the inter-building linked road system, the confirmed
uniform size of every Earth-2 tile, more ecosim details, and much more.
​# general Page 1 of 5 Generated with Discrub


Shane 11/21/2023 at 14:30:10 EST
thanks guys. I have finally caused the questions to run dry! Birthday mission accomplished !! Ok
back to work fo
r me!

Shane 11/21/2023 at 14:25:38 EST
I am certainly no genius which is possibly why people like jumping to conclusions when I make
certain decision
s, but I like to listen and think, so as I have said in the past, the decisions I make are made for a
reason. Someti
mes I can say why, sometimes I can’t and sometimes I’ve learned it’s best just not to say why at
all. I realise ma
ny have also disagreed with my decision to launch on a DEX, but again, I have my reasons. You
can witness fir
st hand how a long list of bad decisions, or even just decisions that were risky to make at the time,
through 202
0-2022 are catching up with various projects. I’m not saying we’re bullet proof or that I cannot
make wrong decis
ions, and I’m sure some will still disagree with launching on a DEX, but my biggest interest is
launching somethi
ng that has the best possibility of longevity with the least possible external barriers (i.e things that
can go wrong
which are out of our hands), whether those be legal, adjusting governance/compliance, evolving
legislation or ot
herwise. I want to try my best to avoid some of the nasty things these operators have hiding in
their closets not
knowing when they are going to spring out on them. So even launching on a DEX there are certain
guidelines I
believe are important to ensure everything is as compliant as possible from a long term
perspective, not a short
term gain, while waiting to see how many more nasty surprises jump out before everything settles
and hopefully
becomes more stable. So when you see something that is getting you upset, or see others upset,
take a step ba
ck and consider there may be a reason for it that you’re not aware of, almost certainly for the
better for the long
term success of the project and for you. Sometimes I can provide a reason why and sometimes I
can’t, but I’ll al
ways be trying to make decisions that give our project the ability to keep building, expanding or
hiring the right p
eople to achieve our goals and experience long term success.




Shane 11/20/2023 at 18:03:50 EST
well thanks to the community members who pointed it out

Shane 11/20/2023 at 18:02:39 EST
it appears Thomas followed him years ago, I think he tried to message the account and Thomas
must have follo
wed back (not sure). Either way the follow will be removed today, we have no idea who he is

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:27:11 EST
you're weclome, trying my best

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:26:51 EST
a few others were muted too and from what I saw almost all of those guys just took it on the chin
and came bac
k without a problem. CM will deal with it moving forward, I might just ask my reports be focused on
constructive
feedback convey in a respecful manner

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:24:30 EST
ok, the reason I dropped in before catching that bit of chat above and responding to it, was just to
let everyone k
now that the issue with relocation Cydroids between T3 land and allocating Cydroids to T3 land
from the Bazaar
has been fixed and should be fully deployed on prod soon. That was the reason I dropped in, got a
bit sidetacke
d there. And remember, CM is it now, just deal with whatever they do. Follow the guidelines, be
nice, avoid this t
oxicity and sure all will be fine

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:22:07 EST
yes we are thinking on this one, have a few ideas on the drawing board so just know that I am
aware and we're l
ooking at it

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:21:00 EST
it has nothing to do with the name he used, nothing. From what I can see that was solved. It was
that he continu
ed bringing up the mod (Jad) which resulted in other mods responding and so forth. Sick of this
drama to be ho
nest, we don't need this type of rubbish in here

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:19:11 EST
I don't want to draw any more drama or attention to this, a second chance was given and
seemingly lost. I will le
t the CM deal with it.

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:18:00 EST
I both disagree and agree with this. I ask to be updated on community activity, I don't think that is a
problem. Ha
d I not been provided a report the result may have been different already. Had Nizza come back
and even been
remotely polite, let things drop and move on we wouldn't be here. You can't put the blame on one
person when i
gnoring the fact it's the other persons behaviour that caused the situation to exist in the first place.
The part I agr
ee with is that maybe I will just let the CM action as they see fit now, so if they believe he needs a
perm mute th
en go for it. That part I agree on and do not wish to waste further time on it or other situations

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:08:12 EST
I have answered that numerous times - please search my name and comments

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:07:50 EST
all of this ends up leading to toxicity and frankly we don't have time to deal with it. The CM showed
me other co
mmunities who were able to remove the toxicity and it worked out for the best. Imagine when we
have more peo
ple in here? The CM / Mods are not going to be able to deal with it without a set of guidelines and
rules

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:06:30 EST
free speech is fine so long as it's not intentionally causing division, being disrespectful to team
members, mods /
on another etc.

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:05:41 EST
it went smoothly I think. I'm just glad the servers didn't crash and from most reports it was very
smooth which is
great

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:04:53 EST
sorry I am not sure those would be included in the new plan for how YE will work

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:02:52 EST
very accurate summary from what I have read as well

Shane 11/20/2023 at 17:02:22 EST
Resin. The new CM prepared a full report about the incident with Nizza last week. It was a very
good report and
summarised what transpired very accurately. After reading it I thought the timeout was sufficient.
They wanted t
o send it to him but I suggested not to as it might cause more drama and to just let him settle
down before retur
ning and he should be good. From what I understand the first thing he does on returning is restart
the drama. E
ven then, the CM let things settle down and Nizza later restarted the drama again by passing a
comment on Ja
d, after which one of the other mods defended his fellow mod. Then what I can see is Nizza, as the
instigator, pl
ayed the victim claiming it's unfair. It's just ridiculous that I even have this type of thing on my
table. It's childish,
unreasonable and promotes division and toxicity. There is the CM role and mods, and of course
they are here to
keep the peace but not to run a kindergarten. The most disappointing thing I see here is it causes
division and it
appears intentional as was evident in the report I read where Nizza started labelling other
community members
as 'sheeple' for having a different opinion to him. So I am asking for this to be dropped, Nizza may
have one mo
re chance to come back but I am not sure when, I don't want any more of this drama on my desk I
have enough
to deal with and from what I can see the mods / CM have acted reasonably.

Shane 11/20/2023 at 14:00:22 EST
not sure that would be a thing but would be interesting

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:59:40 EST
the questions never end lol

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:59:33 EST
need to get back to work guys. These drop ins can be distracting lol

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:59:07 EST
not sure on that one - I think the team will start simple and build from there

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:58:35 EST
I don't believe so, I have not heard any reports. There are numerous pop ups confirming the Tier
you're buying
and even a separate buy button for Tier 2 and Tier 3

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:57:29 EST
you're welcome. Glad the explanation helped

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:56:58 EST
there will be a different energy that rewards crafting / creating things. I believe I have answered
this in Discord p
reviously or on X. We do not plan to exclude them

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:56:00 EST
nothing really. Just work by the looks of it

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:55:05 EST
it's just aligning for long term goals and long term sustainability. When e2 was launched we built
reward system
s in, such as referral codes which active on a purchase (so obviously not guaranteed unless
someone uses you
r code). Well after the hypergrowth we introduced the E-ther / Essence system to become a new
form of reward
+ have extensive utility inside of e2 long term. LIT and referrals have worked great to date, but
once Essence is
tradable it becomes a much bigger reward than LIT / Referrals. I left the reward systems up even
as Players we
re accumulating E-ther / Essence so they got a kind of double bonus in a way. I am not exactly
certain on how t
he referral system just yet, maybe we can provide Players with an option if they want to keep that
perk, but the
bottom line is we need to look at the long term sustainability of the project. We're building the
foundations of wh
at we believe can be a major Metaverse Player, perhaps the if we play our cards right, and we're
doing it on 10s
of millions vs much bigger rivals spending hundreds of millions if not billions. We need to consider
long term sus
tainability that helps us build this vision. That's just a quick overview and I probably missed
important points I'll t
hink of later but I'm focusing on other things just wanted to write a quick response. Hope that
makes sense

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:44:51 EST
haha - not getting caught on that one sorry

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:44:31 EST
depends on where you are staying I guess

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:44:02 EST
yes just for T3

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:43:47 EST
that is still the plan, but don't hold me to it please

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:43:13 EST
we thought about that too, but what if the Player changes the name of the target property? There
are usually a f
ew reasons we do things even though one answer may seem obivous at first. We could add the
name but then i
t would start to look like a lot of text

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:41:22 EST
ok will pass that bug finding on, thanks

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:40:42 EST
good thanks. Just moving through the day

Shane 11/20/2023 at 13:38:56 EST
we have identified an issue with this for some Players. Should be fixed / resolved in the next few
hours

Shane 11/20/2023 at 11:12:38 EST
I think I have already answered this. The first video will be relatively short but shows some of the
progress we'v
e made on the foundations of E2V1. I think it's quite impressive given the global scale etc. The
2nd video, DEP
ENDING WHICH ONE we decide to release will potentially show more game play. There is a
better answer I pro
vided from the other day

Shane 11/20/2023 at 11:10:33 EST
I am not confirming those dates exactly sorry, nothing changed there.

Shane 11/20/2023 at 11:09:48 EST
yes it was a lot more stable, we were monitoring it consistently through deployment. There will
always be some
who have issues with their internet connection but I'm pretty confident it was not from our side
given the results
we saw. Also thank you for your kind words during the interview, much appreciated. By all

Shane 11/20/2023 at 11:08:24 EST
I am running late for my meeting now, hope you guys have a good day. Please remember to read
my answers c
arefully

Shane if this territory was the only one to ever be released, I would agree. But there are
thousands which wi
Shane 11/20/2023 at 11:07:20 EST
please see my initial response here @iammeta and read down when you have a chance and you
might see ho
w I tried to address your question / concerns

Shane 11/20/2023 at 11:05:40 EST
exactly. I feel sometimes people don't understand the systems and pass judgement without
understanding it. I a
m in here trying to provide clear, concise answers with reasons, it would be great if time could be
spent reading
the answers

Shane 11/20/2023 at 11:03:57 EST
I have provided 2-3 responses above, if you could spend a little time reading them carefully I think
you will find t
he answer. Players 100% control the relase of T3 land, when and where. I could have just set T3
to say $0.50 b
ase price as you're requesting but I think the current model will work out to be cheaper for Players

Shane 11/20/2023 at 11:02:19 EST
T1 have incredible perks and we just added to them with the extra E-ther boost. It can't always be
give, we've a
dded a lot

Shane 11/20/2023 at 11:00:21 EST
ok thank you - I will check it out. Oh I think I have already had this interview translated for me - it
was very nice.
I meant to re-tweet but have just been too busy.

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:59:23 EST
I have answered this above in numerous responses. And again - how is this metaverse getting
built then?

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:58:23 EST
I will try to check later, I have a meeting starting in a moment though so will be leaving shortly

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:57:39 EST
you mean let the Players determine the price that Earth 2 can sell land for? And how is this
metaverse getting b
uilt again?

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:56:28 EST
thank you. I think people get a little short sighted sometimes, but that's understandable

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:55:27 EST
hi there. I have no idea what the community has anticipated so I cannot answer you sorry. I have
made it fairly c
lear on some of the things we're aiming to release by end of year

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:54:02 EST
again, you're thinking about today, not the future. What about once Players have built on it, and it
has factories,
housing, residential, military structures? People have to start considering what the future will look
like, all land is
not the same and that will become more obvious once building and the EcoSim starts. What about
if the locatio
n is good or desirable for a reason to the buyer?

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:51:02 EST
or $0.50 or $1? Please see my response above, I don't think we will have any issues with
affordable T3 land

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:50:20 EST
I believe I have answered this yesterday or the day before. It was a longer answer I think so please
search if yo
u can

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:49:11 EST
the first Essence used to vote will be released over the next day or so I believe

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:47:28 EST
if this territory was the only one to ever be released, I would agree. But there are thousands which
will take year
s to release, even if we released 1 a day, so there will be affordable base tiles for new Players for
years to come
when and where needed to give people a start. People need to think about this as well, you guys
are looking at
tomorrow, or next week. I'm looking at 2,3,5,10 years from now when we have a fully operational
3D world and
EcoSim and new Players want their own land to build things on or make a start and be looking to
trade material
s with who? T1 and T2 playing the EcoSim. This is just one aspect to consider.

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:42:01 EST
thanks for the feedback Jad, I will pass that on and someone will check if there is an issue there

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:41:23 EST
not yet, might drop to 3

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:40:29 EST
yes it was very smooth, we had people testing all over the world and a full team monitoring
devops. Not saying i
t will be smooth every time but we've made some improvements and you will always get a couple
of people who
have issues with their internet, and seemingly you'll also get people trying to piggy back off
genuine reports to in
fluence other's perception. Anyway, was a very smooth release it seems, hope we can maintain
that

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:35:12 EST
we have been monitoring it from all ends of world and it's run extremely smoothly for such a
significant first laun
ch. So just wondering again, were you actually on the website?

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:32:02 EST
I mean what was your personal experience on the website just now?

Shane 11/20/2023 at 10:31:30 EST
what was your personal experience here Arc?

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:55:11 EST
I have provided a very clear answer on this a few times, on my X account and also in here. If you
could please s
earch the answer would be appreciated

Shane ok I need to get back to things, but will try to answer a few more questions. Not past this
message tho
Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:54:21 EST
ok wow .. there were a lot more questions than I realised, but finally caught up. I hope some of the
answers wer
e useful to some of you and hope you all have a great day ahead

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:53:33 EST
I love Paella ! One of the best dishes in the world! I prefer it with beef sausages cut into small
pieces

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:52:44 EST
no there is no specific shape to store the OUs

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:51:36 EST
we are looking at systems but it's a monmental task. At the time I also mentioned it may stay as is
so there is no
definitive answer yet

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:50:34 EST
I don't believe anyone has solved it. My long term goal was always to create something inside
E2V1 to unlock th
e reward if someone solves it

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:49:36 EST
no, they will progressively drop / release as per the count down. There are thousands to be
released .. even if w
e release one a day it would take years. Also the Boosted E-ther Pool needs to be fully tested in a
production en
vironment for as long as possible to ensure it's working correctly. Our internal QA suggest it's
working good but
always good to take these things slow and monitor, so the E-ther Pool boost will function for T3 as
well from the
start

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:46:47 EST
it could be described as hunting I guess, but more capturing initially. I have a specific vision on
how I want Earth
2 populated with animals / living creatures and my idea is to involve the Players directly (as I often
try to do).

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:44:49 EST
I have just answeed that above if you scroll up a bit.

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:44:27 EST
yes it will, as upgrades functions NLV prices can actually increase AND decrease .. making it a
very interesting
overall system. So if you upgrade a T2 to T1, T2 NLV would decrease as the pool has reduced,
but T1 value wo
uld increase. Think about the possible scenarios on that alone for a bit .. as I said, the land
upgrade system has
so many dynamics it's going to be very interesting to see how Players strategise

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:41:53 EST
that would require a longer answer, but high level it is more like a joint venture as their were
mutual benefits for
both sides. Earth 2 would not have had the time to completely rebuild a social media platform from
scratch + ad
vance the website, EcoSim, E2V1 etc etc

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:38:42 EST
we completed a lot of work together already. The headed up the redesign of the Earth 2 landing
page, the social
app is yet to be released but they were also responsible for that (though there are a few things I
wanted to be a
dded to that version). We won't be pushing for an significant marketing campaign until we have a
very stable ver
sion of the E2V1 pre-alpha for obvious reasons. I believe that will be the next key focus on any
major marketing

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:34:51 EST
not at this stage, but we certainly may adjust this over time. It will be confirmed in the upcoming T3
article but in
the future T3 will be able to vote, especially in Territories, and on a lower level country.

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:32:59 EST
hah, not falling for that one!

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:32:34 EST
good morning and great question! Ocean tiles are very often on my mind, very often. Especially
water tiles off s
horelines .. this plays on my mind a lot and I am working on a few potential solutions there. But
back to your mai
n question. I do realise that mining resources in the ocean is different from on land and more
challenging (why d
o you think there are some water type looking Cydroids?). For exactly how this will work though
we need to wait
for E2V1, as that will be the source of truth for all water locations. I don't want to spend precious
development ti
me 100% confirming resources like water (wood, sand) on our website when we have the perfect
platform to det
ermine that inside E2V1 already (though Sand may not be immediate inside E2V1, water and
wood / trees will b
e)

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:27:34 EST
I think I answered this in detail yesterday, or the day before. It's a pretty long answer so if you
could please sear
ch it up would be greatly appreciated.

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:26:33 EST
ok I need to get back to things, but will try to answer a few more questions. Not past this message
though pleas
e
Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:25:46 EST
why do the words dinner and Spain make my stomach rumble .. I just realised I have not eaten
yet. Would love
some Spanish food

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:24:56 EST
we did ? Ok, I'll take that then!

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:23:59 EST
Discord is an amazing platform that's grown and been developed over a number of years. We
won't have a lot o
f these features in our initial release, and we're more or less focusing on something a little different
/ niche anyw
ay. I don't have the bandwidth to work across multiple projects with full capacity so I don't get as
much time as I
would like on the social platform, 98% of my time is on e2 and that's already a massive overload
as it stands

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:21:50 EST
not quite, or at least not for voting on territories .. perhaps it will be one of the things a territory can
vote on? Kno
w what I mean ?

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:19:09 EST
yes that was one reason. In fact it was one of the core reasons we started looking at other options

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:17:56 EST
I will present it as an option when we wrap that up so people will have a chance to vote on it.
Thanks for pointin
g it out

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:17:11 EST
thanks Pacey! So long as we're improving, we're moving forward and that's the direction we want
to be heading
in

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:16:38 EST
it's more about prepping for the future, for example, in the future as we're focusing on other
aspects, EcoSim, E
2V1 pre-alpha etc and releasing those, we don't want to be running around releasing everything at
once. So up
dates now might not be for the next few weeks but for the next months / years ahead


 Thank you
Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:14:46 EST
given your background that's an appreciated compliment

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:13:55 EST
good morning. Thank you and glad you're happy with the progress. You're most welcome!

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:13:05 EST
if I don't respond reach out to CM as I often miss emails. I receive too many and usually direct
contact via my E
A. So just follow up with CM if I don't respond but I'll make a mental note to keep an eye out for it

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:11:43 EST
very cool! I'm keen to learn more! Hope you've been doing well

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:11:17 EST
yeah, unless we're really pushing things we try not to deploy big updates at 5pm on a Friday!
Having said that, t
he Earth 2 team has put in a really long arduous weekend this weekend monitoring T3 etc

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:09:37 EST
hi Luke. Yeah would love to look at that. Hopefully we'll have a few talking points on the upcoming
footage relea
ses and leading into E2V1 pre-alpha. Not sure if you have my office's email but if not, just connect
with the CM
account and they can arrange for further contact

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:07:28 EST
yes I believe so, so long as nothing otherwise urgent comes up

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:06:49 EST
though I think the deployments have been consistently improving. I'm sure we'll still have hiccups,
certainly exp
ecting them for pre-alpha E2V1. But I guess we've demonstrated we can and will improve as has
been evident
with the progression of core foundational features via the website

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:05:14 EST
ha! No matter how much you test, there will always be that final test once it hits prod. You know
the drill!

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:04:03 EST
I think I mentioned it before, but just if not, we also deployed an update to the Raiding system
when we deploye
d T3 which should have improve various aspects. It's good to get this feedback

Shane 11/19/2023 at 15:02:11 EST
**an important heads up regarding the E-ther boost ** We have been monitoring the E-ther boost
behaviour / m
echanisms since the T3 deployment over the weekend and noticed there have been some
inconsistencies with t
he expected boosted amounts. It is a fairly complicated algorithm that operates consistently on a
sizeable scale
and there can literally be thousands of varying results across the Player group, however, these
results should fit
within certain boundaries. This is another reminder about why we release official announcements
once our inter
nal team confirm all is working as expected, just to give our team time to monitor updates in the
production envir
onment. So just a heads up that we’re fixed an issue with the algorithm over the weekend to
correct the daily pr
ocessed calculations for the boost. You will see a reduction in the boost amount, it increased a lot
faster than int
ended. The extra E-ther Players have received so far will not be corrected, so we’re not taking any
of that extra
E-ther back. Though it is of course a bummer to have more then seemingly less, don’t forget that
over all that ev
en with the corrected boosted calculations it’s still a boost, still a bonus, and most importantly, was
designed to
be available and function over a long period of time. Anyway, I just wanted to drop in and provide
this heads up
notice so people understand what’s going on if they noticed a change. We are deploying parts of
the update no
w. This update should not reset progress on the Supercharged Boost Bar so Players should not
lose their strea
k.

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:24:04 EST
ok as mentioned above in my original comment it should be fixed for most but there may be edge
cases. We ar
e aware and will look at it when we have the bandwidth

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:22:50 EST
PvP will not be a big thing in the pre-alpha. If you look back at my original comment I said
'elements' of Rust (ru
sh is in my head, always rushing!) in relation to the survival mechanics. For example, you will
need to stay alive,
sustenance, health, stamina, etc Your avatar will also be able to perish.

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:20:16 EST
I agree. Interesting you noticed those little tweaks, I thought they were important too. Sometimes
the little things
count

Shane ok I do have things to get back to, so need to get going sorry. I just planned to drop that
update on th
Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:18:51 EST
ok I have caught up to here, answered a lot more than intended. I hope you all have a great
weekend and enjoy
a better Sunday than I will (and a few of the other E2 team members, they have also been working
on these fixe
s etc - over the weekend .. legends, can not fault them. @earth2.io being one of those key
members!)


Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:17:31 EST
I have already requested it to be checked out

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:17:15 EST
sounds like more special treatment ..

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:16:55 EST
yeah that one was cool. I like Howl's Moving Castle, and Spirited Away. There was another but
can't recall the n
ame just now

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:15:39 EST
definitely




Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:15:30 EST
I think wait for the videos

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:14:33 EST
I am hoping it will be a 2024 thing but but we need to focus on the E2V1 pre-alhpa first. If we get
the pre-alpha r
ight there will be a lot do and keep Players engaged as we continue working on the next steps.
Edit : Don't hold
me to that timeframe

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:13:36 EST
I guess people have what they want and are not willing to sell. As mentioned in my last response,
2nd Gen Cydr
oids might be able to assist with prospecting type roles but not Raid

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:12:37 EST
those are the Raiding Cydroids, there will not be others that can raid. There will be other Cydroids
(2nd Gen) th
at do other things (i.e prospecting Cydroids) and in many cases the Raiding Cydroids will have the
ability to do t
hose other tasks too, but the 2nd gen Cydroids will not be able to Raid E-ther.

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:11:05 EST
yes definitely, before token launch

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:10:43 EST
I believe there are ways around this with the system we have provided. May not be a reset option
obviously but
there are strategies you can figure out with the tools currently provided

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:09:32 EST
I have asked for this to be looked into

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:09:19 EST
it's coming

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:09:02 EST
they will proably run in parallel for a while. We've built a lot on the web version and E2V1 will have
a different fo
cus. So I would say a long time and possible there may always remain something for the website
only

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:08:00 EST
ok I will check it out

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:07:38 EST
no, only time I will be free to touch it is when E2V1 is out

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:07:09 EST
I was not aware of this, I will make a not but not sure whether we provide it or not yet. We do need
to add some
more payment options but just so focused on other things
Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:06:32 EST

yeah I told you I was working on a few tweaks, just wanted it to look a little better

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:06:04 EST
oh yeah. What happened with that? I recall when E2 was being ridiculed it was in development to
prove to anot
her project (can't remember what is was) how easy it was to re-make their game. It didn't get
released yet? If no
t that's just a little ironic ..

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:04:48 EST
they haven't emerged yet. I am sure you bringing it up here will cause some awareness and their
little network
will start to light up lol

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:03:47 EST
ok I do have things to get back to, so need to get going sorry. I just planned to drop that update on
the Raiding
Recent list issue. I will try answer a couple more questions

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:03:13 EST
I think our BD role might become more important once we have E2V1 in full swing, so not putting
a lot of focus
on it right now. But be sure to send your CV so we have it on file for when it does become
important! For now I ,
with my close personal team + any relevant team member usually take care of such meetings
when they come
up with brands / businesses

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:01:19 EST
are you getting special treatment!?

Shane 11/18/2023 at 17:00:38 EST
some anime is cool though, I really like the Studio Ghibli movies, I used to watch those with my
kids.

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:59:37 EST
not really, I'm not really an anything watcher these days .. I don't get time. The only time I will
watch anything on
the screen for some form of enjoyment is if I can mix it with exercising and I've not been able to
exercise for mo
nths now due to this crazy schedule

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:58:21 EST
is a reward for active Players at present and I will remind everyone again, as I mentioned the other
day, for now
it's clear sailing but in the future there may we ways this gets interrupted, possibly in a PvP kinda
way in additio
n to other ways

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:56:20 EST
you may have missed my joke there, I've spent my Sunday morning working thus far and still have
a lot to get d
one today. So probably not much to look forward to. Regarding this question, initially it will be
designs from E2
with levels of customisation. There will be a blueprint system which you'll hear more about soon.
Long term we'd
love to get into the whole 'create anything' theme but the sheer scale / size of E2V1 and the way it
needs to be
developed introduces restrictions in that sense. I have answered this question before in more
detail on X I recal
l. But yes, long term we'd love to keep something on the table

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:53:09 EST
I haven't caught that sorry. I don't get a lot of time to check around socials tbh. I know what you
mean though an
d I'll ask about it

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:52:21 EST
we will be releasing updated footage this month and next. We have 100% decided on the first
video we will rele
ase, but the which video for the second is still a bit up in the air. Depending which one we decide it
could show s
ome more elements of game play so maybe check that out when it drops

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:50:32 EST
Oh I see. I am sure a few will crawl out from under their rocks to vote on that one

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:49:25 EST
we that's what we wanted, it was worth my Sunday morning then. Exactly what I hoped to hear.
We will keep m
onitoring

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:48:55 EST
we are working on perks for the others as well

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:48:17 EST
please see above message, entire point I dropped it was to deliver that message for this very
problem

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:47:47 EST
hah

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:47:36 EST
is he on the market?

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:46:36 EST
no comment sorry.

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:45:52 EST
yes, very exciting. We will continue to monitor the system but I can't wait until we're at a stage we
can introduce
more voting options into the mix

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:45:07 EST
it's not been too bad the past few days, leading up to releases or when things go wrong everything
flies out the
window and I usually end up with about 4 hours a day. My normal working schedule is 2 hours
later each day, s
o if I slept at 4am one day, would be 6-7am the next, then 9-10am etc etc. The extra couple of
hours every day
add up over time and I can get more done. The problem is when one that schedule messages up
and I sleep 6-
7 hours later than I had planned to it takes a long time to get a pattern back

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:41:48 EST
that feels like an eternity ago now

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:41:17 EST
you will always need somewhere to store them. In the future, once the building aspect of the
EcoSim is in full s
wing you'll like have other ways to store them

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:40:29 EST
just great - exactly how I wanted to be spending my Sunday morning!

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:38:57 EST
apologies, but I had a bit to write and wanted to make sure it was clear and concise!

Shane 11/18/2023 at 16:38:11 EST
just a heads up for those reporting issues with Recent targets on their raiding properties : We
noticed the feedb
ack and one of the devs and myself have been looking into it. We recently deployed an update
that should see
some improvement. If you see some improvement please write it in chat here and someone will
check it and rep
ort. We have identified a possible situation where if you have a large number of recent raids in
your history then
this could affect some of the auto targeting systems. Good news is that no data is lost, but if the
current fix we'v
e deployed does not fix it for all Players we will need to find time to research and implement
another solution. H
opefully the update we deployed moments ago should resolve the issues for most Players.
Shane 11/17/2023 at 12:46:08 EST
anyway, I felt obligated to give the benefit of the doubt to the dev above and wanted to respond. I
have done tha
t now so back to work for me

Shane 11/17/2023 at 12:44:32 EST
it just gets too tiresome to be honest, most ignore the progress then focus on the next thing to pick
on. It's very
difficult to win when you have a large group of YT'ers who spent the better part of a year publicly
labelling your
project a scam. Most people don't care about the little details, they just see it and think it must be
right. It influen
ced so many people, we just need to knuckle down, build and keep moving forward. We have an
amazing com
munity and we're making great progress so if we keep going hard at it I am sure everything will
finally fall into pl
ace.

Shane 11/17/2023 at 12:41:41 EST
anyway, I spent some time responding to that dev, not sure it will be appreciated or not but I still
apologise, try to
give the benefit of the doubt.

Shane 11/17/2023 at 12:40:38 EST
the fact I am still alive

Shane 11/17/2023 at 12:40:11 EST
hey Aussi. I thought I had answered this in the past but if not I will provide a quick response. What
you are referr
ing to is something we will definitely consider in the future but is not on the radar right now. First
we are focused
on getting the pre-alpha live and functioning. Hopefully including some fun engaging layers of
engagement. Onc
e we have all the foundations set we will certainly look at what you are suggesting but it may be
some time into t
he future. We are dealing with so much data and there are so many moving pieces. We could
definitely focus on
what you're suggesting and get it right but at what loss? There is no point having a world that
perfectly updates
every adjustment in heightmap real time if there's nothing to do it in it. So the focus now is
ensuring the core fou
ndations are set and working, then add engagement, then review the real time heightmap updating
at a future st
age

Shane I apologise for my initial response above and I am going to give you the benefit of the
doubt. Please u
Shane 11/17/2023 at 12:36:30 EST
> Can you please remove tiling for landscape material layers looks amateur. E2V1 is a work in
progress, you co
uld watch any tech demo and look hard enough to find something to pick on. The footage was
showing off the e
ngine / tech demo as a whole and in my opinion tiling was not a big issue. Having said that, it’s a
WIP and you’ll
see improvements here and in many other places in the upcoming footage we will be releasing
soon. > I notice
a LOT of unity store assets, some I've personally used myself, but maybe for a project like this its
a good idea to
outsource assets because you have a mix of low poly and then different stylized stuff in the same
shots...this is
not good. I disagree and it’s comments like these that result in us not taking the feedback
seriously and being a
bit more heavy handed in the response, or just ignoring it all together. All of our buildings, street
assets, vehicle
s, ships, Cydroids, other 3D objects have been custom designed and created by our concept art +
3D modelling
team. So for you to say you see a lot of UAS assets that you’ve personally used is blatantly
incorrect. You just
make a broad claim, not confirming where you are referring to as well. If you’re referring to the
internal environm
ent then yes, there may be some assets used as placeholders. If you’re referring to the trees /
environment, the
n there is a possibility you’re confused because in SOME cases it’s difficult to tell trees apart, but I
can assure y
ou that in order for our vegetation to work with KMs view distance on a global scale, we had to
customise or sig
nificantly modify any assets we use to ensure the system works. > Vehicle physics and gravity is
way off, needs
another pass. This is subjective – not sure how you can determine how the physics / gravity
should work for flyi
ng cars and ships. If you mean the character being dropped into various parts of E2V1, of course
that’s not reali
stic. We were just showing the avatar can move around as prior to this footage release there were
accusations t
hat you couldn’t run around in the terrain. > Also, I notice the use of atmosphere to hide the edges
of the player
area, in the gameplay showcase, but then you show an in engine pre rendered earth. IS there
some way you ca
n show traversal from one side to the other as gameplay not as a pre render. There is no pre-
rendering, we wer
e very clear about this and will take your assumption as a compliment. All footage is in-game from
our custom b
uilt Earth 2 Engine (which sits on top of Unity). You ask for traversal evidence, well the entire
opening footage of
our latest tech demo is in-game, traversal zooming into any place in the world being able to drop
the avatar and
interact. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5oo1SSZKjrI video here You can see multiple
examples through the
video of us zooming out and into different places of the world. You can see similar zooming in /
traversal of the
world at the beginning of our dev vlog 8 as well, anywhere from around 1 minute if you want to
save yourself tim
e https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-QYD5gB996c video here We also first showed off the
beginning of this ab
ility in our dev vlog 3, from around 2 mins to save yourself time. https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=kLjA8zY7tm
E video here In dev vlog 3 and 8 we also reference Google Earth and demonstrate accuracy,
something that is
often conveniently overlooked by critics. Anyway, will leave my initial response up there so people
don’t intentio
nally take it out of context, but I apologise for my initial response, it just gets a bit tiresome over
time. As mentio
ned above we will be releasing more footage, in-game, no pre-rendering Nov/Dec so if you’re
genuinely interest
ed please keep an eye out.

Shane 11/17/2023 at 12:35:11 EST
I apologise for my initial response above and I am going to give you the benefit of the doubt.
Please understand
that we have had a history of people claiming to be game devs, intentionally (or possibly
unintentionally and just
due to having very little actual game dev experience) make claims that they know it all and
proceed to ridicule o
ur project or our devs, either one gets tiresome over time. First what we were doing was
impossible, then when
we actually show we’re making progress on fulfilling our goals, it suddenly becomes easy. So first
it was “that’s i
mpossible”, then it was, “that’s easy, I could do it on my lunchbreak” or “I did this first year at
University”. We’ve
seen a lot of this which has led to some more heavy handed responses. I get it, what we’re
building isn’t easy. J
ust the global scale E2V1 as a base foundation is incredibly complicated alone. But when we show
progress it
would be nice to get a little acknowledgement as opposed to what comes across as hurt pride or
hard feelings.
Anyway, I will provide you with a couple of responses from me below (not our devs, so may not be
as much tec
hnical terminology)

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:48:01 EST
UAS assets ! Yeah .. is it worth reading further? All of our buildings + vehicles etc etc are all
custom designed a
nd made by our 3D modelling team. Additionally, all trees, bushes, plants etc were custom built or
heavily modifi
ed by our team specifically for E2V1 as there is a very custom / specific pipeline required to get
them working to
gether at such scale (which you guys will witness soon). This might become more noticeable in
upcoming foota
ge. I am not saying what all these type of devs say is not accurate, some are definitely worth
listening to, but wh
en they start their rebuttal with noticing a lot of unity assets from the asset store, when clearly we
have built our
own 3D buildings, vehicles etc. it doesn't really lend much weight to whatever else they plan to say
as they're alr
eady misleading and demonstrating the direction they want to take with their statement. Yeah ..
UAS assets .. ju
st drop them into E2V1 and get hundreds of them working together on global scale at view
distances into the K

Ms .. EZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ!!!! (I really wish it worked like that, would
make our life so
much easier) So I mean come in without starting the rebuttal off with something blatantly false and
maybe we wi
ll take it more serious, show Earth 2 and our devs a little respect and maybe we will take the rest
of the stateme
nt into consideration.

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:42:47 EST
ok I am out guys! Sorry if I missed a question, I need to get back to focusing on a few things and
receiving inter
nal pings waiting for my input. Is Saturday 2am and I'm pushing for a few things to be done before
devs head int
o the weekend

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:41:57 EST
probably develop out of over time

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:41:01 EST
oh I see - not for now I think. We may add something later but for now I believe 98% of the world
works as expe
cted

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:39:50 EST
some will be burned, some recycled

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:39:25 EST
oh now you are talking about some of our secret sauce .. or nothing source rather. A lot of work
went into this, e
ven removing man made artefacts was challenging. Not going to give this away but I can tell you it
was very cha
llenging to get working on a global scale. At present we've really made some big breakthroughs
where even sm
all clumps of trees / bushes displayed at high altitudes are accurately accounted for when you
zoom right in clos
e. It's pretty magical

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:36:10 EST
might not be in pre-alpha, though you will be able to check ownership. There is a system I want to
design which
let's you know when you're entering a new area and who it's owned by though which will play part
in other game
design mechanics I have in mind .. such as owners being able to set up reasons for people visiting
their propert
y

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:34:45 EST
videos will be Nov/Dec as mentioned previously

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:34:06 EST
wait for WP and I can't predict how much (many) it will be on launch

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:33:38 EST
gotta stop reading chat! I am off now!

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:33:18 EST
not initially, but I want that over time. There may be safe zones / opt it but we'll see

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:32:50 EST
we're looking at custom solutions for certain areas but with the other high priorities on the table
right now it's not
in the list. We will be looking to fix the UK up and then review other areas as we have time, we just
have bigger
fish to fry right now if you know what I mean .. unless you'd prefer we delay other things and sort
these edge ca
ses out
Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:31:00 EST
the whole world is generated based off real world height map data, not a single texture file (unless
I am misund
erstanding what you mean). It's generated based off real world height map data and there are a
million things a
dded on top of that to get it looking the way it does at the scale it is.


Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:24:33 EST
wait for WP

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:24:16 EST
no way! I was very surprised! But Essence is power .. so there will be those who want to keep it
and wield

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:23:29 EST
correct, does not matter. Do not have the transform

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:22:38 EST
keyboard initially

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:22:28 EST
ok I am back to work

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:22:14 EST
100% resources on eggs! Let's vote!

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:21:51 EST
no, for now the way it functions it can stay at 30. But as I mentioned, there may be adjustments
over time, may
be other ways to lose the streak. This is just the start

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:20:49 EST
more details will be in the article, which should be released early next week. We're still adjusting /
fixing a few th
ings behind the scenes that Players can't see / notice. A lot of work in this type of thing. And a few
little tweaks c
oming in etc

Shane 11/17/2023 at 10:19:27 EST
every Player will be different, that's how the alogirhtm works. So comparing % is fine, but every
Player will be dif
ferent as it depends on which tiles they own, NLV, days etc. Also just note that some might think
the boost looks
low but remember this is per day, multiply it by a year and it adds up .. significantly. Especially at
full super char
ged boost

Shane 11/15/2023 at 20:04:40 EST
will be player driven that's for sure! And heavily linked to the EcoSim. And I want to include ... well
I don't want t
o give away too much otherwise people will generate their own expectations. The first step is
E2V1 pre-alpha a
nd explorartion, survival, travel etc

Shane 11/15/2023 at 20:02:54 EST
anyway, has been a very long day for me too so I am going to wrap up a few things and crawl
under a blanket s
omewhere. Hope you all have a good day ahead and thanks for the kind messages of support!

Shane 11/15/2023 at 20:01:59 EST
yes, but not saying your suggestion is how it will work. I want dying inside E2V1 to be something
Players try to a
void, not take for granted

Shane 11/15/2023 at 20:01:10 EST
there will be more options released over time. I think we'll see a lot more come into play once
E2V1 is launched
and new dynamics are introduced. Like maybe leads of territories, rules around the EcoSim, trade
partners, voti
ng to leave countries and form their own, maybe even waging war on other territories etc

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:59:41 EST
people complain and laugh from time to time but we absolutely have some very talented devs.
There will always
be some people screaming from armchairs on how they could do better though

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:58:24 EST
I am not sure how to answer that one. There are mechanisms in place. I guess if you want to beat
the whales y
ou should try co-operating with other likeminded Players? Not sure here but we can't just say small
Players get
multiplication on their votes or something. Also the way we intentionally designed the system was
to lock the vot
es (i.e tiles votes, Essence votes) for at least a few days after the initial lock. This gives some
windows to other
people but I can't control how Players (whales included) strategise

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:55:54 EST
my sentiments exactly !

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:55:17 EST
well .. not sure I agree with the motive but yes, Avatars will be able to die

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:54:48 EST
cannot give any idea on this, but it will at least remain open until all resources are released. It may
also stay ope
n after that so no real comment here

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:54:14 EST
boosted E-ther is unique for T1 and T2 tiles. T3 pick up the remnants of the pool if T1/T2 miss out

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:53:26 EST
we will start with the pre-alpha and that will evolve over time. If you like RUST (I agree it's cool)
then you might li
ke some elements of the pre-alpha as we plan to incorporate a number of survival mechanisms.

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:50:59 EST
everything is pretty smooth so far. One of our genius devs saved the day after realising the
Essence and votes
were going to be returned immediately on locking, not release of the territory. He deployed a fix
within a few min
s of the countdown finishing .. the things that happen behind the scenes that you guys don't see!
He and others
were up until 1am their time getting little things fixed, monitoring. There is a lot of this that occurs
which is not se
en but the community so it's really nice to see people appreciate or at least acknowledge it as
opposed to compl
aining. If there are problems it's just nice to see the problems convey constructively, not
destructively. But anyw
ay, the focus should be on the hero dev and team go above and beyond for all these little things

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:47:50 EST
you can vote multiple times with the same tiles after they are unlocked but only on territories in the
country the ti
les exist

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:47:13 EST
sorry, if we unlock for you then everyone has a right to be unlocked and we're not doing that

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:46:47 EST
yes, or maybe let CM know or reply to my twitter etc

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:46:23 EST
you can only vote on territories inside that country anyway, so if you voted on a locked country
some how unloc
king them would change nothing. You could only revote in the same locked country with those tiles

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:44:59 EST
you cannot change

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:44:45 EST
locked for voting, that's all. I have confirmed that above earlier today in Discord

Shane 11/15/2023 at 19:12:49 EST
https://tenor.com/view/sponge-bob-sponge-bob-mail-postman-election-day-vote-gif-18099193

Shane 11/15/2023 at 14:18:49 EST
this is not how it should work, the Essence + tile votes should be released at the point of T3
release. Having sai
d that, we have identified a possible issue where the Essence / votes could be released earlier
and we're lookin
g into it. So for the first 2 territories, it may release immediately on lock, but this is not how it was
designed to w
ork and long term is not how it will work. We will get that fixed up if this is the case. We like
releasing without offi
cial announcements until the feature looks stable as things like this do come up. This is just an FYI
for everyone

Shane 11/15/2023 at 14:05:30 EST
it may look simple at first glance but there is a lot going on, a lot of moving pieces especially if you
look at the E-
ther boost mechnisms, T3, pools and that's all of top of the voting system

Shane 11/15/2023 at 14:04:38 EST
ok, I need to get up in 2hours, going to try take a nap! Have a good day guys!

Shane 11/15/2023 at 14:03:46 EST
yes pretty much, though I believe we may be locking in 1st and 2nd on this first round, then go to 1
per round. I
believe that is how it will work.

Shane 11/15/2023 at 14:03:02 EST
might not go that far but it is a pretty cool little system and we will build on it!

Shane 11/15/2023 at 14:02:20 EST
we may play with things over time but nothing locked in yet sorry. I've thought of a few possibilities
inside E2V1
so will be waiting to explore those in the future

Shane 11/15/2023 at 14:00:45 EST
I just dropped in for the Ronald comment - he genuinely deserves it. Absolute professional and
very talented!

Shane 11/15/2023 at 14:00:20 EST
so you should be!

Shane 11/15/2023 at 14:00:11 EST
incredible. It's very interesting to watch what Players choose. I'm definitely looking forward to
expanding this sys
tem in the future when there are more things to vote on, especially inside E2V1

Shane 11/15/2023 at 13:59:06 EST
this man moves mountains behind the scenes! Devs crumble at his sight!

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:26:55 EST
ok I have a meeting starting in 5 mins so have to go. We will continue to monitor so any issues just
report them
and someone will be watching. Also please review my answers before asking questions, it might
save you time t
yping the question out as I may have answered it already. Keep safe!

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:25:47 EST
I believe that will be a day of jubilation and confliction

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:24:30 EST
some Players really want those territories to get released .. I wonder if they will get bigger rallies
behind them

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:24:01 EST
correct

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:23:48 EST
sorry I am not sure what you mean about supply dynamics? If you vote with your T1/T2 tiles it's
just the vote tha
t gets locked, that's it for now. The land remains normal in every other way
Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:22:28 EST
as I said, there are robust fall backs in place. If it goes then it was supposed to go. There may be
ways in the fut
ure for it to be disrupted too. So just enjoy it as it is now

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:21:03 EST
sorry, I'm not sure about this one

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:20:36 EST
you're EVERYWHERE!


Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:19:55 EST
yes correct

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:19:38 EST
would not, it would just be playing it safer to ensure your daily boost goes through. Also, there are
fall back syst
ems for daily boost, so if you lose your daily boost you lost it and will need to start again. We will
not be manuall
y altering daily boosts. If it's gone it's gone and you start again.

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:17:54 EST
I don't .. I think Players with tile in that country and then that specific territory should have more say
than someo
ne who has no presence there. Having said that, we still allowed a fairly powerful vote for Essence
holders even
if they are not located there. In the future there may be votes that don't include Essence

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:16:52 EST
yes

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:16:32 EST
it get locked for further votes. Just means you cannot vote on other territories

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:16:00 EST
I believe the max is 30 days or there abouts to hit maximum

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:15:15 EST
I don't believe so, if you claim today you can begin your overcharge streak

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:12:30 EST
we don't have a time limit on it at present. It is kind of part of the tokenomics system so it will likely
be around for
quite some time, HOWEVER, the boost system + other boosts (i.e Jewels, other boosts etc etc)
will all fall away
once the disinflationary mechanics kick in making it harder to mine E-ther and therefore Essence

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:10:53 EST
vote stays for now

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:10:47 EST
I don't believe so, it is locked

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:10:32 EST
and just to point out, the E-ther boosts seen on s2 are super inflated due to the NLV tile prices
there. Just keep t
hat in mind

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:09:13 EST
just answered above

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:09:02 EST
the warning message is clear as day, red text and all!

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:08:44 EST
it just gets locked up for that vote. No other limitations I believe.

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:07:49 EST
yes! I wonder who will be able to keep their streaks up the longest? The battle between the
streakers and the ra
iders?
Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:07:04 EST
agree - there will be some very cool things that will be voted on in the future. This should give us a
very good op
portunity to test the system thoroughly

Shane 11/15/2023 at 09:06:04 EST
I have provided quite a few details over the past few days, so I recommend reading up on that if
you want to bri
ng yourself as far up to speed as possible, but as always our official announcement with further /
full details will

follow as standard, probably in a few days, once we are sure everything is stable. Our team are on
hand to mon
itor and fix any issues that may arise. Voting on T3 Territories is** completely optional** and
Players can / shoul
d wait for the official announcement if they feel more comfortable doing so. One thing to note is
that any Essenc
e used for voting could potentially be locked up for a long time (until that Territory is released) but
we have been
**very clear about this on the website and put clear warning signs before anyone decides to vote
with Essence.*
* So there is not really a lot that can go wrong for voters aside from voting with too much Essence
but that shoul
d be mitigated with the clear warnings provided before you're able to vote with Essence.

Shane 11/15/2023 at 08:37:16 EST
ok I am back to monitoring with the team

Shane 11/15/2023 at 08:36:41 EST
just clearing up the counter here is the countdown for the Territory in Poll Position to get LOCKED
NEXT. So tha
t is showing how long until the next Territory gets locked in, then after it's locked in it will disappear
from the voti
ng list, change to the release countdown and the votes continue to work out the next Territory to
get locked in.
We're starting with 4 day releases. Also don't forget when you vote on a territory you also get to
CHOOSE THE
BEST TIME that suits you, so the Players actually 100% control the time of day for the actual
release too.
counter.png
191.04KB

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:49:05 EST
1 - I believe devs have looked into this and if it's happening, cannot find the exact cause. They
cannot replicate i
t so the only explanation is maybe the system lags a little sometimes .. but in all honesty the
system is so robus
t, it processes tens of millions of actions per day and almost never goes offline (at least very rarely
especially w
hen compared to other online games and compared to the amount of data it's processing).
Regarding the E-ther
boost system, we spent considerable time building the system so it should not reset unless a
Player misses clai
ming over that 24 hour period, but there are always edge cases and it can never be perfect. We
strive to get it a
s close to perfect as possible though. 2 - It relates to the entire country (I think I am reading your
question right,
had to read it twice). To the unclaimed boost pool is determined on a country basis, irrespective of
how many T3
territories are released. OK I really need to go now, I just saw you put effort into writing that
question and felt obl
iged to provide you with an answer

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:43:07 EST
nice work! Ok I've gone past my line above, I really do need to get back to this doc. Hope you all
have a good d
ay ahead

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:42:24 EST
now people are starting to understand ... yes, I am getting territories set and over time they will
have a multitude
of things to vote on and decide. Was going to write more but won't spoil it further for now

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:40:45 EST
yeah first one is coming! And then there will be another and possibly another. Got some good
things to feast yo
ur eyes on (though the first video will be a little shorter just to bring everyone up to speed on the
beauty of Earth
2 etc).

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:39:16 EST
no comment on this yet, but we're knee deep in it all. I told you guys a lot of things going on behind
the scenes.
It might feel a little slow at times but we're still a relatively small team working our .... off

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:38:21 EST
pfft .. lucky countries

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:38:11 EST
go big or go home .. I might regret saying that ..

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:37:50 EST
it will definitely be lower than the 5 billion stated in the draft paper

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:37:25 EST
I never thought I'd see the day ...

Shane good question and it's something we are constantly working on in the background but the
team is just
Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:37:03 EST
just to add to this, again, with recent announcements and upcoming releases I think, like T3 and
the mechanics
with boost etc, it will be better to get YE out there early so it's working properly, we have
processes in place etc

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:35:29 EST
good question and it's something we are constantly working on in the background but the team is
just pulled so t
hin in every direction. We really need to expand the team but it's hard to find the right talent so
we're doing the b
est we can for now. Having said that, when the Yellow Energy system launches it will provide an
opportunity to r
eward anyone who covers topics, which will include nicely arranged how to videos for the various
aspects of Ea
rth 2. This system will be retroactive meaning anything created to date can also be submitted and
there may be
opportunities for the YE to be redeemed into Essence. Now I am certainly not saying the
redemption amounts w
ill be high but we have created an internal system that will determine the reward based on how
well the video w
as made, how engaging it was, how easy it was to understand, how entertaining, is the
information accurate, ho
w many views etc. There are a number of contributing factors, but it will be Earth 2's token (or
should I say ener
gy) of 'appreciation' for those actively talking about E2, covering topics, how tos etc. Bit of a long
answer but ho
pe that makes sense

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:29:49 EST
no

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:29:30 EST
sure that is a enough reason to wage ... war ?

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:28:44 EST
yes there is another ready for release but it may run a little late this week

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:28:01 EST
morning Resin. I wouldn't say next exactly but yes, they are incoming for sure

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:27:01 EST
not sure I said that .. but yes, highly complicated. When you see it you'll know we've navigated and
crossed a v
ery difficult bridge. The OU generation will lead to other things like raw materials via the weaver
etc - but OU ge
neration is the first massive step we need to take
Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:25:39 EST
you're welcome

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:25:14 EST
T1 attracts more E-ther than T2 so the bonus is bigger on T1 if the popularity of the country is
identical. If the po
pularity of a T2 tile in a country is high then it will get a bigger boost as well, but not if equal to T1
as the T1 bas
e is always higher

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:23:26 EST
I think we saw the trouble some tokens are in offering APY etc. No plans as such, we want
Essence to be buildi
ng value inside E2V1. I am sure there will be opportunities to stake your Essence into things
worthwhile long ter
m inside E2V1 for beneficial purposes

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:22:00 EST
oops wrong text field

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:20:55 EST
I need to get back to focus on something, but I will try to answer questions above this point ---------
------------------
----

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:20:28 EST
it was done, some time ago .. but it was missing features and there were at least a few things I
wanted to add b
efore it gets released

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:19:23 EST
wow .. I didn't think of that one. Very strategic plan

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:18:35 EST
I think I've mentioned before, this OU detection on a global scale spanning tens of millions of tiles
is a big deal.
Extremely complicated. When you see that go live, and OU generation, you'll know we'll have
finished months o
f design, planning and implementation. Pretty complex stuff but when it's released it will be a
massive piece of t
he resource generation foundations set

Shane 11/13/2023 at 13:16:33 EST
you'll see more and more of it ramp up sooner than you're thinking. We've almost released all the
core base res
ources, then we'll finish off a few more parts of the EcoSim on the website and then after we get
the exploration
aspect of the E2V1 pre-alpha cleared and stable next year there will we will turn our focus more
onto the visual
side of the EcoSim, building, trading, so there will be some big focus there.

Shane yes, the E-ther boost is 100% related to T1 and T2 owners, nothing to do with T3 at all. It's
just a part
Shane 11/12/2023 at 15:15:40 EST
so it's basically a reward to all T1 and T2 land holders

Shane 11/12/2023 at 15:15:11 EST
ok back to work, just adding that bit above




Shane 11/12/2023 at 15:14:54 EST
hi Predict

Shane 11/12/2023 at 15:14:43 EST
hi Drew. Happy b'day to you

Shane 11/12/2023 at 15:14:21 EST
yes, the E-ther boost is 100% related to T1 and T2 owners, nothing to do with T3 at all. It's just a
part of the full
package. Any Boosted E-ther not collected from T1 and T2 in each country is put into a pool that is
then attracte
d by the T3 ""Seeds"" and distributed with a ceiling limit per T3 tile. The ceiling is higher than T1
tile E-ther yield,
BUT, if there are too many T3s and not enough E-ther in the pool then the ceiling is not hit and E-
ther from that
pool is evening distributed amongst the T3s. There is quite a bit to think about here but that's the
basic high leve
l explanation (though I have touched on it already).

Shane 11/12/2023 at 15:10:54 EST
typo from a tired man

Shane 11/12/2023 at 09:00:24 EST

sorry, I better stop reading the questions now or I'll keep wanting to answer. Have a good day /
evening everyon
e

Shane 11/12/2023 at 09:00:01 EST
no, they are existing rarities. You will find out the details soon

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:58:54 EST
let's get E2V1 out first !

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:58:33 EST
we're working on it

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:57:46 EST
this is a huge task, not sure if people realise how complicated even this step is covering tens of
millions of tiles
on a global scale. But it's something we are focusing on and it's coming

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:56:34 EST
well I answered a few questions above anyway. I need to get back to work here, is midnight and I
still have quite
a few things to finish off

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:55:38 EST
sorry guys, I just wanted to answer the vote time question as I popped in and saw the question so
wanted to pro
vide a quick response. I thought the chat was a bit quiet in here then BAM .. I am trying to focus on
a few things

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:54:27 EST
good question, and possibly. The Mentar was something from the first design team and I was
never really too ke
en on it. It was also not very well thought through especially with regards to displaying buidlings
etc in the EcoSi
m. Looks great as a stand alone building but I have no idea why they didn't consider how it might
look with hund
reds of them needing display inside a city for example. So yes, we are looking at different options

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:52:37 EST
I think let's get the token live, that system functioning and stable, E2V1 launched in pre-alpha and
later we will l
ook at the various NFT opportunities. There is too much to focus on. This is one reason I wanted
to get T3 live
(and some other upcoming releases) so we don't have too much to cover when focusing on the
E2V1 launch. I
mean we don't want to be launching E2V1 and multiple other products at the same time. We will
need all conce
ntration on E2V1

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:50:33 EST
I believe that the Civilians sustained by energy types will have extra stamina, but when we move
to a food / wat
er sustenance model there will likely be rest times introduced

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:49:20 EST
well there is probably one benefit, not being raided. I guess there will be others as well. I am
thinking we won't i
nclude the heatmaps inside E2V1 so people can hide the areas they dwell if they wish to .. and for
other reason
s that will be discovered over time

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:47:45 EST
you know I can't answer that. I have no idea.. it will be decided over time. I did tweet about this
though some tim
e ago I think, let me find it. > Many often speculate on what the price of #Essence will be, but the
value of #Esse
nce will only be one way to make something in #Earth2. Players can already sell #Land #Jewels &
#HBDesigns
+ soon #Cydroids & #Civilians & we will just keep adding to this. This is why #Utility for #Essence,
#Ether, #Jew
els, #HBs, #Cydroids, #Civilians & all else linking back to #Earth2Land ownership is so important
long term. So
me claim it's a few cents based on #crafting, but what about the #EcoSim #Player who #stakes a
handful of #Es
sence to generate #RawMaterials & then #BuildingBlocks resulting in the manufacturing of
multiple objects they
might sell for $0.05 each, or $1 or $10 each. What is the value of #Essence to that #Player? Or
#Essence used
to power #ads, #power buildings, #cities, #stores, #cydroids & too many other things long term My
goal is to buil
d a #Metaverse #Platform & #Essence happens to core #Utility. > > So in many situations I think
the value of #E
ssence will be different depending on how you use it, irrelevant of what people decide they want to
sell it for, whi
ch is what a #UtilityToken SHOULD be

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:45:03 EST
E-ther was never mentioned on the website for months when most of the tiles were purchased




Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:44:14 EST
you're always thinking a couple of steps ahead There are a few long term plans for Territories,
yes. If I answ
er all these questions there will not be anything fun to reveal

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:43:03 EST
probably not in the first video (or maybe a little) but more in the second (depending which of 2
second videos w
e decide to release)

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:41:59 EST
yes, will be later this month and another next month

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:41:30 EST
hi guys

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:41:04 EST
it will be removed. It was supposed to stop a long time ago when E-ther was released (2021) but I
thought I'd let
it continue until Players could at least trade Essence externally. So there has been a lot of double
bonuses for o
ver 2 years more or less

Shane 11/12/2023 at 08:38:14 EST
I believe we detect local user time to make it more convenient, but it will be confirmed in the article

Shane 11/11/2023 at 11:59:32 EST
everyone has a different opinion. Days before it was released I said we will drop it on s2. Please
just read what I
wrote in the past

Shane 11/11/2023 at 11:58:56 EST
I'd say next week but no promises

Shane 11/11/2023 at 11:58:30 EST
it's a ridiculous statement to suggest otherwise.

Shane 11/11/2023 at 11:57:40 EST
you're turning this into something it's not

Shane 11/11/2023 at 11:56:22 EST
I jumped onto gen chat here and wrote out almost every detail around T3. The announcement will
come later

Shane 11/11/2023 at 11:55:22 EST
we have rules on here, it's that simple

Shane 11/11/2023 at 11:53:40 EST
with the idea it would be reviewed. Maybe we review and decide it's permanent. I don't know I
have to sit down
and look at it on Monday

Shane 11/11/2023 at 11:52:21 EST
there are other servers to go to, if you don't want to follow the rules on here then we have
mayhem. I understan
d people standing up for their friends but stand back and take a look at what happened here. tc
was asked to ad
d "in my opinion" to his comment. That's it! But he decided to ignore that request and edit his
message to make
a mockery of the request from the CM. I'm sorry, but I don't want a toothless CM in here that
needs to tread on e
ggshells because people who break the rules might get upset

Shane 11/11/2023 at 11:50:03 EST
this will be reviewed on Monday as I said, but the sentiment here is that some of you are saying
someone shoul
d not do their job because you disagree when they simply follow directions and guidelines

Shane there is always the option to login, claim E-ther, Jewels, convert to Essence and chill unitl
E2V1. The
Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:59:24 EST
this is certainly not complicated

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:59:13 EST
there is always the option to login, claim E-ther, Jewels, convert to Essence and chill unitl E2V1.
The EcoSim wi
ll not be for all people.

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:52:05 EST
anyway, I have to get going guys. Last note again, there have been a few people placed in a time
out and more
will be placed in it if they come on push this who issue, so just be courteous and focus on other
topics. We will r
eview the whole incident on Monday (yay .. really looking forward to that) and decided what needs
to be done fr
om there. But it was really disappointing to see some of the comments people made when all the
CM was doing
is following guidelines. Something definitely has to change and hopefully will make it a better place
in here. I do
n't know how the CM does their job to be honest, they are not a boxing bag.

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:48:56 EST
and there are future plans about T3 land we're not talking about yet

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:48:19 EST
there will be a ceiling on how much E-ther each T3 can get, but you're basically correct and the
ceiling I believe
(don't quote me) is higher then T1. But when more T3 is sold in that country the ceiling will
eventually stop being
hit and the pool will need to distribute evenly to a point where if a lot of T3 are sold then there
would be smaller
amounts of E-ther attracted to the eggs. Just wait for more details but hope that helps. It's actually
a pretty com
plicated sytem and T3 should still be considered as the base building tile, though some may look
to take advant
age of certain situations

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:45:13 EST
but seriously, I am not sure on that one. The CAT handles those things

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:44:55 EST
you may need to put on some scuba equipment .. looks like you're going for a swim!

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:44:18 EST
and what about when Essence is traded externally? I think people don't think deeply and long term
on this one, t
hey are just looking for a quick dollar. I'm not saying what Essence will be worth, but obviously
over time our go
al is to release E2V1 and build on top of it and there will be a limited supply of Essence.

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:42:19 EST
well we have obvious things like Abort Raiding details and T3, E-ther boost and voting details.
Then also land u
pgrade systems, some more info on the power of Essence .. and later in the month we obviously
have the video
etc another video in Dec. Should be a pretty exciting Nov/Dec

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:39:42 EST
the state / territory only

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:38:16 EST
I am not sure what the floor is but a the end of the day each parcel of land is different. Someone
might look at s
omething with a 0.26 floor price and not want it because of where it's located, what it looks like,
the surrounding
s. Every piece of land is different and different things appeal to different people. They might be
happy to spend
0.50 or $1 per tile for the place they like - then what is the floor? My point is that all land is different
so hard to s
ay something is floor when it's all different

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:36:11 EST
haha ..I needed laugh .. you have me in hysterics !

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:35:56 EST
THAT IS MIND BLOWING !

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:35:48 EST
get OUT !!!

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:35:39 EST
oh for sure !

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:35:25 EST
but nothing yet

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:35:20 EST
the notion has certainly been tabled

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:35:02 EST
EDC is often on my mind and I am thinking of ways we can do more with it but I need to set some
other foundati
ons up first

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:34:35 EST
that's mind blowing if true ..

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:34:00 EST
yes basically you're right but there might be some other alternatives / options. The bottom line is
that there will b
e quite a few decisions for Players to make about when they want to upgrade, wait, get in early?
Every country i
s going to present different scenarios at different points in time. Some countries may never be
tempting enough
to upgrade or only if Essence reaches higher value. THere will be a lot to consider.

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:31:50 EST
thank you, beautiful words and much appreciated

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:31:29 EST
ok I'll be sure we talk about that Monday

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:30:17 EST
every weekend mate ..

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:29:58 EST
yes!!! We are testing the voting system! This could be used for ALL TYPES OF THINGS in the
future. Then we
have people in here crying about it. There is no need to buy a single T3 tile! It just gets released -
you can just l
eave it sitting there and someone will pick it up in the future. We are testing the system and
making it interesting
at the same time

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:28:20 EST
bit hard to answer them all right now I'm sorry. I wanted to create a video for T3 but I just run out
of time. I was h
oping to do that tomorrow but dejavu .. 2am, still so much to do

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:26:59 EST
thank you my friend

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:26:43 EST
they will chime in with the T1 classes. So if T1 is class 3 then upgraded T2 to T1 will continue as
T1 class 3. Ha
ving said that, there might be a little bonus for those who upgrade first to make things interesting
but you'll have
to wait for the article about that

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:25:28 EST
well I stick up for my team. I didn't think it was much honestly but when I read the chat I was like ..
what is this?!

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:24:54 EST
yeah I think we will review all of this because something is not working. If the CM cannot mute
someone for mak
ing a joke of them when they were just asking them to follow the rules something is wrong. Maybe
too soft and
people just expect they can do whatever they want

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:23:12 EST
guys in all honesty I only really get the weekend to be creative / productive and to try and catch up
on things I w
ant to push further for e2. The week is always meetings, liaising with people, solving problems,
multiple people
contacting me .. so I only really get the weekend to do some of the important work .. I look forward
to the weeke
nd to work in peace if that makes sense! Then I get called into this type of thing .. my goodness it
does my head
in sometimes

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:20:53 EST
one CM cannot argue with multiple people like what was happening above. It looks bad and we
don't want argu
ments. When a decision is made it's made there is no need to escalate it. So I have told CM if
there is anyone c
oming in and pushing this agenda further to cause arguments just give them a timeout and we will
review on Mo
nday. It's just going to now take time up in meetings on Monday to review something that shouldn't
even be an i
ssue

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:18:36 EST
Kansas T3. T1 and T2 in Kansas remain as USA T1 and T2.

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:17:51 EST
it was not a permanent mute

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:17:33 EST
look, I have reviewed this myself now and I don't see the issue. tc received a warning to change a
comment so
make it his own opinion, it's a pretty simple thing to change. Do we really want a CM who is just
ignored and lau
ghed at? The CM was told to follow guidelines and they have been trying to do that. I like tc but he
deserved a t
emp mute I think but we will review that too on Monday. Looking at it now it seems ok but

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:15:44 EST
well Essence came after right? So maybe we can let you choose between E-ther or LIT? These
were actually b
enefits for early adopters. We stated this somewhere. It was meeant to stop a LONG time ago
when E-ther was
introduced but I left it there. I probably should have made more of a noise about it but though we
could just stop
it when Essence is tradable externally

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:13:52 EST
the new territories are the T3 land when they are released. Available land as a result of the
territory can be boug
ht as T3 land (or T2 so long as T2 remains open)

Shane 11/11/2023 at 10:12:29 EST
I received a ping from our CM and have reviewed the above comments. I honestly don't know how
they can eve
n do their job guys. There is 0 respect or understanding for them. I have read over the history a
few times t mak
e sure I get things right and it's just perplexing. Can we please have a little respect and
understanding for our st
aff in the front line please? It's 1am Sunday morning here and the last thing I want is dealing with
this right now
so I told them to give timeouts to anyone who keeps pushing trouble and we are going to review
all of this Mond
ay. It looks ok in here now but please just settle down, we can't have someone on here 24/7

Shane boy do we have some eagle eyes in the community, literally seconds after re-opening s2
this is alread
Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:45:32 EST
ok guys I need to get going I'm sorry. The main reason I dropped in was to put some minds at
ease. I saw peopl
e taking about T3 being an upgrade from T1 + T2! Really had to put those worries and a few
others to rest. Plea
se spend the time to actually read through my message above if you'd like to get a fair grasp on
how T3 will wor
k, how it will fit in and how T1 + T2 owners will have the opportunity to boost their E-ther because
over time, opp
ortunties for boosted E-ther etc will drop away. Until next time, keep safe and keep an eye out for
upcoming ann
ouncements with more details (as always we will test on s2, release when ready to prod, stabilise
and then ann
ounce so keep that in mind too)

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:41:39 EST
no

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:40:39 EST
they could upgrade from T2>T1 if available but could not release T3 if there is no land remaining

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:39:25 EST
yes, E2V1 will be a pretty interesting place for your average explorer

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:38:56 EST
seems to be a thing at the moment, so might be an indication

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:38:21 EST
I agree!

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:38:06 EST
I can't foresee the future but I have made it no secret the token release is one of the big focus
points for us right
now. Not the only focus point though, we're still progressing with other development

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:37:05 EST
well there will be some truth to that, yes

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:36:29 EST
I am falling behind - I will probably not be able to answer too many more questions

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:35:48 EST
there are mechnisms 100% linked to the Earth 2 platform that will determine when the
disinflationary systems ar
e activated.
Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:34:36 EST
the reward of power to determine which territories are released. There may also be strategies too
and I am sure
Players will probably have different ideas on what areas they want live first so may be some
competitive voting

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:33:39 EST
if the answer was yes I wouldn't confirm. Wait for the WP and you will notice the disinflationary
methods for E-th
er / Essence

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:33:00 EST
indefinitely at this stage. It's really also for new players once E2V1 is up to buy base tiles to build
on, trading wit
h T1 / T2 owners and building their way up. One of the other reasons I wanted to get these
mechanics out early
and working properly is so we don't need to have another thing to worry about as we draw closer
to E2V1. It wo
uld be nice to have these systems humming and working effectively when E2V1 goes live instead
of releasing t
hem all at the same time

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:30:59 EST
you might be waiting a while for the right territories to open up .. we will probably start with 1
territory every 3 da
ys which would take years to release the entire world. It's up to the Players which they want to
release first

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:29:59 EST
we are aiming for this yes, but don't take this as a promise / timeline. It is getting close though

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:28:56 EST
I was thinking about it, but not sure yet .. hopefully there will be some incentive for community
members to start
covering and explaining details in some of our upcoming releases because there are many angles
to take

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:27:14 EST
if that a state in the USA is the next highest voted world territory in the countdown, then yes

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:26:06 EST
I think people will work out a few benefits at least short term, especially when there are only a few
territories rele
ased in a big country meaning that the excess E-ther pool for that country has higher rewards in E-
ther for T3 ini
tially at least. Raiding spots is another one. Securing locations that may not be picked up by T1
and T2 yet also
for some people

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:24:13 EST
1 - not at this stage. The LIT system was implemented to reward early supporters. It was actually
supposed to b
e removed once E-ther / Essence generation was released but I thought I would keep it there to
reward Players
for as long as possible. The system will likely be removed once Essence can be externally traded
and Players h
ave the opportunity to benefit more directly through that avenue. 2 - Divided by states, regions,
provinces (calle
d different things in different parts of the world)

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:21:17 EST
not exactly, please wait for the full details. Basically Cydroids raiding from T3 will need to be a
higher rarity in or
der to raid bigger properties (and T2 / T1 properties)

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:20:15 EST
I think one point I have touched on in the past that people forget about is that at some point
Essence will becom
e disinflationary. Details about how this works will be in the WP. Once Essence becomes
disinflationary a lot of t
hese boosts will drop away, and while it is impossible to determine how long it will be until that
happens due to a
number of different variables, when it does happen, people will likely reflect on how much easier it
was to get E-
ther at this point in history

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:17:30 EST
at this point, yes

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:16:37 EST
> play to earn in order to reach those higher tier properties with better performance > Which I
have just confirme
d above it will be

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:08:47 EST
So if an entire Country if fully claiming the 100% max E-ther boost then T3 Seed will attract no
roaming E-ther, h
owever, if there is any roaming E-ther, it will be equally distributed to T3 tiles located in that
country and T3 own
ers will have a chance to claim it. Inside E2V1 there may also be roaming pockets of E-ther
Players could come
across as a result of these mechanisms. These land mechanics have been part of our WP for
some time and ne
eded to be released before we moved forward. T3 will be upgradable to T2, meaning T3 tiles can
grind up the Ti
er pipeline. But wait for details on how the upgrade system will work before speculating too much
as the upgrad
e system also has a lot of moving parts to it as well. I am going to leave it here for now, please
wait for further d
etails to be released but hopefully the above details provide some insight to those who read it.

Shane 11/09/2023 at 10:08:38 EST
boy do we have some eagle eyes in the community, literally seconds after re-opening s2 this is
already out. Ope
ning s2 now will give the community a little time to play around with some of these new mechanics
though we ar
e still ironing out a few things. We thought Players might have a bit of fun figuring some of the
moving parts out
and while I see some are doing this, I completely understand why some are confused which leads
to frustration
so while I am not going to be able to cover every aspect here, I will try to cover as much as I can
to put some mi
nd at easy. What I would still say though is wait for all the details, because there are quite a few
moving parts to
these new land and E-ther mechanisms and a few things I won't cover here. T3 is the base tile
we’ve talked abo
ut for some time and we wanted to make it work a little bit different plus include the Players. The
Players will be
100% in control of releasing the territories over time on a time schedule, not Earth 2. Due the large
number of te
rritories in the world the base tile will be released over a long period of time, but I imagine some
territories will b
e voted for release earlier than others. The voting system also opens up quite a few strategies in
you think deep
ly enough about it. Just to quell some of wild speculation we’ve seen so far, here are a few bullet
points to look
over: • Tier 3 is the base tile we’ve talked about for some time now, we wanted to make it different
and include P
layers as opposed to Earth 2 just releasing it • T3 will be the final release of new tiered land inside
Earth 2. No T
4 etc • T3 cannot support a Mentar, therefore it cannot mine E-ther direction from Earth 2 • T3 will
have what we
call a Seed, that can be upgraded to a Mentar (T3>T2) • T3 cannot therefore build Cydroids • T3
cannot synthes
ise Civilians • T3 cannot spawn Jewels • T3 can detect resources but cannot harvest the OUs
directly • T3 will n
ot have land classes • It will not have any Jewel slots Do you need to buy T3? Not if you don’t want
to. T3 is a b
ase tile mainly for building or for grabbing a location you like but has still not been taken by T1 or
T2, but it can d
o a few other things : • It can still tether Cydroids • You can launch Raids, however, the Raid
capacity will have li
mitations based on the Cydroid Rarity (another utility for CD rarities) • You can earn E-ther, but
only under certai
n circumstances There are a few other specifics but I just wanted to get this information out
amongst you guys t
o digest. This update includes a few other things, one being the ability to overcharge your Mentars
on T1 and T
2 land to boost E-ther detection and effectively get more E-ther. This is a reward for super active
Players who cl
aim their E-ther daily and get a daily streak going. We will provide details about how this works in
the official arti
cle, but just know there are some key contributing factors and like the EDC promise, countries that
have more d
emand will have the potential of a higher boost. The result of this new land mechanic system is
that countries h
aving E-ther boosted pools which are created every day. These pools are sitting there for active
T1 and T2 prop
erties can claim part of. The only way to get your full part of the pool is to gradually build your E-
ther booster up
through consistent E-ther claims daily. Any remaining E-ther in those pools will then move away
from the Mentar
looking for a resting place where they are more desired, the T3 Seed.

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:42:17 EST
they will be released and confirmed inside E2V1 at this stage




Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:40:44 EST
thank you

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:39:51 EST
I think it's coming

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:39:27 EST
I am not aware of this but I imagine QA would have something recorded. I am not sure how
widespread the issu
es is though. I think support might handle those cases for Players from memory to ensure an
amicalbe outcome

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:38:17 EST
I am sure if we keep building and release a fun, engaging product then people will start noticing
Sorry guys, I ha
ve to keep moving. I just wanted to jump it an clarify the s2 lock down is not related to the token
launch. Hope y
ou all have a good day ahead and keep safe

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:36:54 EST
there is a point where it just becomes too much to launch things closely together and it also
heightens the risk s
preading resources too thin if something goes wrong. So I can't give a time, we're just trying to tick
things off on
e at a time

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:35:35 EST
we are working with a couple of companies behind closed doors but nothing we plan to announce.
Just focused
on getting products out at present

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:34:40 EST
I believe you're referring to land upgrades? Sorry if I have misinterpreted this

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:33:53 EST
yes want to get that done. If you saw the devs workload at present though you'd understand why.
Just need to fr
ee up a day so they can implement the system

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:33:00 EST
thank you! Can't wait until you and others can do that inside E2V1. It's a WIP but we'll get there

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:32:17 EST
not sure if there are any shots of that location in the vids

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:29:55 EST
yeah there will be a few things to do. Not upgrading land though, we need external trading for that

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:29:07 EST
yes this

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:28:42 EST
yeah I think we will probably release on s2 when we're ready and then make sure the community
have some for
m of thorough understanding by monitoring discord and socials then decide the next course of
action. It seems t
o be working well so far

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:27:44 EST
we will provide more details soon, but yes the land class will continue with a bit of a twist .. so there
will be decis
ions for Players to make

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:26:46 EST
waking up at midnight? Sounds like my sleeping schedule at times

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:26:08 EST
I am not sure it's wise to execute a massive marketing campaign for an untrialled product. I am
sure word of mo
uth will spread fast enough to keep us busy and give us time to iron out what will surely be a large
number of un
foreseen kinks

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:24:42 EST

oh yeah .. sorry, I need to get around to that. Not enough hours in the day

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:24:05 EST
as interesting as this might be I feel we need to provide a few prior details for this one

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:23:09 EST
no I don't get time. I remember last time I looked having a good laugh. Maybe I should stream a
video going thr
ough them or something .. they were very funny

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:22:23 EST
it's getting closer, we're ticking things off

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:21:58 EST
would you ever bet against an original Virtual Tycoon ?

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:21:31 EST
I think what you're describing would be some way into the future (i.e playing an existing game
inside E2V1 as o
pposed to taking a portal into a different game). We will be taking it one step at a time

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:20:27 EST
in the future, yes. Likely inside E2V1 (not pre-alpha). We are just focusing on other higher priority
tasks right no
w

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:19:25 EST
we're just ticking off things we need to do first

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:18:40 EST
not 100% decided yet but ideally there will either be an article or what I'm leaning toward is
opening s2 once w
e're happy so the community can take a look and get familiar with the system (kind of like our
standard procedur
e) as I think there are a few things people need to understand with how the mechnics will work

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:13:19 EST
correct

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:13:10 EST
oh I thought I saw something about the token and wanted to clarify it's not before things
snowballed!

Shane 11/08/2023 at 09:12:00 EST
just want to clarify it's not for token, it's for some pretty big updates to the entire land mechanics
system ( so the
actual finished product, not an announcement for an announce as some like to say) and our team
needs a little
peace and quiet to get it on there and tested as there are many, many moving pieces to it
Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:59:17 EST
no I am out sorry, I just wanted to help out with answers to make sure all went ok. We had a few
sets of eyes on
answers and on standby to help out. I need to jump back to work, not enough hours in the day.
Hope you all hav
e a good day ahead

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:57:15 EST
thank you to @earth2cm for putting this together. It's actually almost 10pm over here so they
came online late ni
ght just to help people have access to a different time zone. Really appreciate the effort
Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:53:47 EST
well Sunrise might be considered a type not a colour so I think they were just covering there

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:51:47 EST
Oil is not a Jewel

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:51:17 EST
yes but you needed to state the quantity (i.e 1) . Very close though an amazing effort considering
English is not
your first language

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:48:48 EST
wish I was that smooth

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:40:21 EST
my arms are always open

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:39:27 EST
part man - part bot

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:38:13 EST
oh they know

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:37:48 EST
I am still perplexed ...

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:36:15 EST
lol

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:35:25 EST
yeah maybe we will review for next time but it's not a rule this time around

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:35:02 EST
have to admit, Jaidum nailed those two .. not easy to answer that fast

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:34:25 EST
give this man a prize!

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:30:00 EST
ok good luck @earth2cm . Please go easy on them guys remember this is just for a little fun!

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:28:11 EST
or I can set the questions perhaps? Q1 - How long is shoon ?

Shane 11/07/2023 at 06:27:39 EST
can I play?

Shane 11/06/2023 at 09:44:00 EST
people heading into offtopic

Shane 11/06/2023 at 09:43:38 EST
https://tenor.com/view/oh-no-homer-simpsons-hide-disappear-gif-16799752

Shane 11/06/2023 at 09:43:25 EST
man gen chat is dead all of a sudden ..


 And thanks everyone for the supporting messages for them
Shane 10/31/2023 at 21:08:51 EDT
nice job @earth2cm

Shane 10/31/2023 at 21:02:41 EDT
https://tenor.com/view/facepalm-really-stressed-mad-angry-gif-16109475

Shane 10/31/2023 at 20:49:52 EDT
anyway, please let them get on with their job

Shane 10/31/2023 at 20:49:31 EDT
feedback is good. Attacking the person is not

Shane 10/31/2023 at 20:48:33 EDT
some of the feedback here is pretty sad to see for a positive event

Shane 10/31/2023 at 20:48:15 EDT
no, but I am watching. Please behave guys we have someone putting in a good effort as a new
CM

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:40:12 EDT
yeah that sounds about right, they were looking into it about 30 minutes ago

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:39:26 EDT
oh btw I got onto devs regarding the LIT and Jewel delay. They are looking into it and should be
resolved soon if

there is an issue

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:36:13 EDT
if I come back toeless or .. well let's not think about that alternate suggestion

Shane but seriously. People should have a think about these other scenarios before pushing their
thoughts o
Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:35:34 EDT
the amount of time people spend coming up with something negative to say, could be better spent
giving it a se
cond thought. Imagine how productive they could be, I mean in life as well

Shane It's easy for people to cover half a story if it fits their narrative. I know you are trying to
prove positive
Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:34:21 EDT
but seriously. People should have a think about these other scenarios before pushing their
thoughts onto others

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:32:44 EDT
or probably more like

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:32:40 EDT
https://tenor.com/view/fishing-rod-snap-cast-fish-fail-gif-17119887

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:32:23 EDT
ok I am off !

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:32:18 EDT
https://tenor.com/view/epic-npc-man-hu-ha-nice-day-for-fishing-morning-mornin-gif-17883323

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:31:36 EDT
thank you my friend .. or your friend ..

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:31:09 EDT
thank you for the words my friend, much appreciated. Ironically I push things to the max behind
the scenes, I wa
nt things out there faster than you guys do

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:29:15 EDT
It's easy for people to cover half a story if it fits their narrative. I know you are trying to prove
positive cases but
at the end of the day they choose to ignore other data and other potential reasoning behind why
some Cydroids
might sell cheap. For example, many of the cheaper Cydroids are likely being sold by Players
making space to r
epurchase another Cydroid to match the resource on that property. The prospecting Cydroid. So
it's convenient
to ignore this possibility, in which case a Player is selling the Cydroid for $0.30, which is the
current lowest price
I see, know all well they are going to buy another Cydroid to replace it fully charged with another 5
Essence. Th
ey are not selling the Essence, they are swapping the Cydroid. They might be happy selling their
Cydroid for $0.
30 then buying another for $0.60, regaining the 5 Essence and having the correct Cydroid on their
property. Do
es that mean the person selling at $0.60 is determining the price? Furthermore, if you look at the
Cydroid Bazaa
r there is currently around 105 pages of Common Cydroids, 12 per page, so just over 6,200
Essence in total ev
en if someone bought every Cydroid there. Does that sound like a crazy dump? No, but of course
some will tell
you people are jumping through hoops to sell. And the price of those common Cydroids spread
from $0.30 to $1
00 over those 105 pages, so they are not all $0.30. Finally, there are currently 231 pages of
Cydroids for sale, T
OTAL, including every rarity. That's almost 14,000 Essence if you bought every Cydroid in the
market right now
without considering the price range. 14,000 from 170,000,000. Yeah, people are rushing to sell big
time. So peo
ple will say what they say and push the narrative that fits any type of negativity they want to place
onto others wi
thout taking time to look at the real / full picture.

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:17:43 EDT
Thanks very much, I sincerely appreciate it.

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:17:20 EDT
The tags you see there are tags that those who created negative videos about Earth 2 used
regularly in addition
to positive tags we used.

Shane 10/28/2023 at 14:15:49 EDT
Probably shouldn't be tagging me but the simple answer is it's very standard behaviour on
YouTube. In the past,
those creating negative videos about E2 used positive tags about Earth 2 to ensure their videos
showed up as s
uggestions when people searched for information about Earth 2 on YouTube. For example, when
someone watc
hed one of our videos they wanted to ensure their negative video showed up as a suggestion. So
from what I un
derstand, the person responsible for our YouTube posts said we need to do the same thing, in
order for people
who follow the negative coverage of Earth 2 to see updates, such as that video. It's really nothing
to be too conc
erned about and is rather common from what I have been told.

Shane it’s comments like these which lead people to believe it to be true. May I ask you where you
saw us b
Shane 10/28/2023 at 13:04:00 EDT
anyway, this was the reason I dropped in, not to get into arguments. So anyone interested, please
take a mome
nt to read this. It also outlines some of the challenges we've faced and continue to face and hints
at how difficult
some of the complexities we've faced have been. It's 3am, I am going to take my son for some
early dawn fishin
g this morning and enjoy some rare time with him and let my mind rest for a bit. Hope you all have
a good day

Shane 10/28/2023 at 13:01:02 EDT




Shane 10/28/2023 at 13:00:12 EDT
if you believe a misleading claim stating "Earth 2 said they had already built tech 3 years ago
which allows them
to host thousands of concurrent Players on a server" is the same as "I think Essence will be worth
$X" then ther
e is very little I or anyone else would ever be able to do to convince you otherwise on any other
topic, ever

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:57:20 EDT
100% get that and there is no issue conveying frustration. Let's just keep it cordial and respectful
other commun
ity members in mind and more of all, let's avoid any misleading information, things are already
difficult enough w
ithout having people in here planting seeds of incorrect info around. I 100% know what it's like
having screamin
g kids in the back seat!

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:53:55 EDT
the focus was on making misleading comments, and you promptly came forth to summarise the
entire situation i
n a misleading comment. I was simply pointing that out

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:46:56 EDT
that's a pretty poor and misleading summary

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:46:24 EDT
nice words and it's good to know. I look forward to a day we can look back and think the same for
E2

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:44:50 EDT
well I was probably referring to the Cydroid Bazaar which was not live at that time

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:44:20 EDT
no, we don't have plans to directly trade Essence internally before the external trading option

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:43:25 EDT
I don't ignore questions intentionally, there is just a lot to try and read and then respond to and re-
read

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:43:07 EDT
sorry, let me find it

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:41:59 EDT
we are adding aspects to is which will make it more enjoyable to play. The most difficult parts are
complete whic
h is the good news. We could have easily released a pre-alpha version that would allow people to
fly around, se
lect and buy tiles etc this year, but to be perfectly transparent, we thought that may get boring
quickly so we wa
nted to add some game play elements for Players to be able to at least do a few things, run
around with an avat
ar etc

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:38:26 EDT
actually, I thought the videos we have planned to release over Nov/Dec will speak for themselves,
show the pro
gress and answer the question of delay as well as an indication on when it will be available. But
when I was ask
ed in Discord yesterday I decided to just answer, instead of letting the videos do the talking which
would have b
een a much nicer experience for the community I think. Perhaps I shouldn't have answered. It also
seems you'r
e threatening we should turn a blind eye to those being constantly negative or spreading
misleading information
because it will turn 'those few' away?

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:34:21 EDT
frustration is fine, I can understand that. But there is a world of difference between frustration and
creating false
information to pursue an agenda

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:32:58 EDT
and we also tried to set expectations for this, pointing out these were going to be consistently
incoming. But peo
ple still choose to misinterpret it as it's all we're doing.

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:31:33 EDT
thank you for the confidence and words of support Yehna. Sometimes it's hard to provide clear
answers becaus
e I've seen the aftermath of what an incorrect timeline prediction or what not can cause. It's one
reason I try to s
tick with as much of the historic game design completed by previous team members, even though
I may not nec
essarily agree with it, just so we can keep things aligned to previous promises.

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:28:55 EDT
oh yes, you know the history well. That was my youngest daughter. Actually this year I had a
meeting with gover
nment officials overseas to discuss aspects of our metaverse concept and she knew about that,
she just rando
mly said "Dad, because you're meeting government officials means Earth 2 isn't a scam right?".
She had not me
ntioned anything about it for a long time, but shows it was still something she thought about, I was
taken aback
by the comment and shed a tear. It's really sad how much damage a few people caused with
misleading info an
d to get a few extra dollars in their pockets. Anyway, we just keep pushing forward - what else can
we do

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:25:48 EDT
Hey megadeath. The video last year I think provides a good insight into some long term goals. The
portal syste
m will come into play at a later stage, the focus right now is to get the pre-alpha E2V1 out and
functioning, then
we will iterate on top of that with releases. It will more or less be an endless build update from
there I'd say, just
want to get the base version as enjoyable as possible

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:23:34 EDT
exactly. It will be the same people complaining about a timeline missed who complain about the
product not bei
ng enjoyable enough. It's a catch 22

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:21:44 EDT
and who says it was never going to happen? It was not dropped with the intention of it not being
delivered at the
time Nizza. You make it sound intentional. As I've mentioned, I realise timelines are not a good
thing to even pro
vide as a guideline as even a hint of a suggestion that doesn't eventuate will be held against you
forever. So thi
s statement is incorrect, the timeline was not provided with the intention of missing it.

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:16:55 EDT
I definitely have an idea similar to this on the table. From the beginning I wanted there to be a
more direct link b
etween E1 and E2 so it's certainly not forgotten. I just feel the E2V1 milestone is a lot more
technologically chall
enging and we need to complete it first so we can begin building on top of it. At the moment I don't
really have a
ny more bandwidth to deal with anything else, already burn out as it is with the numerous things
we have in dev
elopment now

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:14:35 EDT
thanks for the words of confidence Mikki. Hopefully in the near future we'll all be spending time
inside E2V1 and
not have time to worry about some of this external rubbish

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:12:06 EDT
yes I completely understand. The challenge for Earth 2 was already difficult enough, then we had
to battle throu
gh a very public campaign against our project which was riddled with misleading information
making it very diffic
ult to hire the right talent. Then some in here that spend their time bringing others down, especially
with misleadi
ng info, does become a little hard to deal with at times

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:07:15 EDT
the focus is shifting to E2V1, once we have that stable I will be looking at potential mobile versions

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:06:01 EDT
Hi Yehna. I am well thanks & hope you've been well too. You may have missed it but I pointed out
that the initial
pre-alpha will not have those parts of the EcoSim, however, the pre-alpha will include necessary
steps that lead
into the EcoSim so it will not only be something to do, per se, but a number of the things to do will
have releven
ce in the EcoSim making it productive toward to end vision if that makes sense

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:03:21 EDT
I'd have to disagree with that. And furthermore, you taking that comment you have referenced and
turning it into
"they claimed 3 years ago to have built proprietary tech to host thousands of players" is quite
misleading

Shane 10/28/2023 at 12:01:37 EDT
you do realise the comment you referenced above actually disproves your point, right? Perhaps
you read it wro
ng initially and have had that version stuck in your head

Shane 10/28/2023 at 11:59:33 EDT
yes exactly, I said > the world that I see some referring to where hundreds of thousands of Players
will be playin
g in the exact same space is not something coming tomorrow > How does that translate to us
claiming we've alr
eady built the proprietary tech 3 years to host thousands of Players concurrently? You actually
helped prove my
point, thanks for finding the reference

Shane 10/28/2023 at 11:56:06 EDT
So in conclusion to what I've responded with above and back to the original question. I understand
you may just
been keen to jump into E2V1 and I assure you, we are just as keen to get Players into E2V1 - but
can you pleas
e provide screenshots or clear explanations of where, 3 years ago, we boasted we have already
built proprietar
y tech which can host thousands of Players concurrently as you claim we have done?

Shane 10/28/2023 at 11:54:15 EDT
it’s comments like these which lead people to believe it to be true. May I ask you where you saw
us boasting 3 y
ears ago that we already have proprietary tech to host thousands of players concurrently? I am not
aware of wh
ere or when this claim you refer to was made? Our first tech target has always been aligned with
our first commi
tment, to replicate a highly accurately geological digital version of the planet Earth. You’ll notice
that as a result
of this target the dev vlogs and other visual progress updates that we’ve released to date have
reflected it accor
dingly. After successfully creating an accurate base digital version of the planet Earth, we set to
working on othe
r aspects from a long list of tech requirements in order for this world to start looking good,
streaming efficiently a
nd operate at the required massive scale. We’re talking about an open world the size of our planet
Earth ‘with’ a
high level of detail. Not a world that looks like the size of Earth from a distance or a world that’s
completely proc
edurally generated – because we’re modelling the planet Earth, it therefore needs to look like
Earth. Land mass
es need to be in the correct places, hills, rivers, mountains, valleys, oceans (you get the idea)
need to be in the
right place like our real world, not simply procedurally generated. Then, even once all of the above
is satisfactor
y, the end is still not in sight. Next we need to look at how water fits into our digital planet Earth, on
a global leve
l. How do we build the tech to ensure that water flows in the correct direction down rivers and
streams into lakes
and oceans? Once again, on a global scale, something I don’t think anyone has achieved or at
least has never
demonstrated before (on a global scale using real Earth data). We also need to consider how we
approach veg
etation biomes? And once a viable solution for global biomes are built, how do we even start to
think about seas
ons? All on a global scale, not random procedural generation. And this is just for the foundation, I
am not even t
ouching on all the additional requirements we’re constantly needing to account and adjust for in
consideration to
the short and long term vision of this project. Do you understand how difficult the solutions to some
of the techn
ological challenges are? Tech that will allow a mega city to appear in front of you at on massive
scale, with movi
ng pieces, varying architecture, vehicles etc etc etc. How about looking over at that mountain top
in the distance
and seeing an accurate representation of the trees colour, many kilometres away? There are too
many of these
challenging tech specs for me to list from the top of my head. Specs that are critical in making
E2V1 and beyon
d a wonderful place and there are a lot of them that are often overlooked. This brief summary
above does not in
clude any of the web based features or the progress we’ve achieved. The two development
pathways that run i
n parallel – one on the website & EcoSim engine and one on the E2V1 engine, of which we have
provided visua
l progress updates about. Then we have people in here, usually the same regular group, who cry
for change, cl
aim we’re not doing enough, not doing it their way, not doing it the right way, threatening to leave,
taking underh
anded shots at team members, making up false accusations and so forth. I do keep an eye on
Discord from tim
e to time, looking for forms of constructive feedback or suggestions along with messages of
support that help re
charge the mental batteries, but it seems to be becoming more and more hijacked by the same
group of people,
offering nothing of substance. I would personally find it difficult to maintain a positive disposition in
here reading
some of the comments a few people feel obliged to first make and then continue to pursue until
they get others
aligned with their beliefs, and that’s even knowing what I know we have coming, so imagine what
effect this has
on fellow community members.

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:27:43 EDT
we will be iterating on this for years to come - should not be any surprise here

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:27:12 EDT
ok sorry for the questions I missed, I tried to catch as many as I could and I really need to wrap up
a few others
things before taking a break. Hope you all enjoy your day and weekend ahead and it was nice
catching up

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:26:02 EDT
you should be seeing more details about it all in general, how some of the systems with work and
probably quite
a bit more

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:24:14 EDT
we will know once we've finished testing the pre-alpha internally. We're still building core parts due
to significantl
y different pre-alpha we have now planned vs what we had previously planned to be honest. Once
that is compl
ete we will better know how we want to release the first version and whether we want a closed test
or not and at
what scale

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:21:45 EDT
dry - we have not had rain for quite some time




Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:21:17 EDT
I definitely want that - you may have to work hard for to get that fishing rod though

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:20:45 EDT
I am not sure we'll allow destruction of other Players properties in the main 'verse', unless it's opt
in. But yes, th
ere maybe certain structures that could be destroyed (turrets, war / battle related structures
perhaps). Nothing is
fully set in stone and this won't be in the pre-alpha but it will evolve into some pretty cool dynamics
I believe

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:17:54 EDT
long term yes, we are definitely planning agriculture etc

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:17:29 EDT
not initially, but there are a few little things that might interest people
Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:16:46 EDT
I don't get time, certainly nothing consistent. I went on a 10km rain forest hike the other week
though, that was n
ice

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:15:45 EDT
I keep having urges to create an opt in 'something' I'm not going to go into details about just yet. I
just can't wait
until I get time to focus on it

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:13:14 EDT
we will just keep building - I understand you'd like to see an influx of new Players but I don't think
we're at a stag
e yet to be honest. Let's build product and let the product do the talking. It also allows us to grow
gradually as o
pposed to having a massive influx of new Players say before E2V1 went live which will open all
sorts of new iss
ues. So let's just focus on getting a cool product out there, let Players play with it and iterate on top
of it. The res
t will fall into place over time and we'll know when it's the right time to focus on any type of major
marketing cam
paign

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:10:41 EDT
we do have a plan for launch, just wait and find out but thanks for the suggestion

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:09:57 EDT
well I have confirmed you'll at least need a Mentar and some E-ther to synthesise the first
representation of your
self inside E2V1. There may be a list of specific Players invited to test first, or we might just release
to everyone
- honestly it's not set in stone either way just yet

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:08:22 EDT
yes, we do plan for higher levels

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:08:06 EDT
sorry guys, I am trying to find questions I have not answered. I only have time to answer a couple
more, it was n
ot my intention to stay in too long as I have a few things I still need to wrap up and it's just passed
4am

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:06:36 EDT
in all honesty I have been wanting to resdesign the civilians. They will still keep their rarities but
due to this intro
ducing new factions is not high on the list right now

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:05:14 EDT
good question and this is a really big topic we've been touching on for some time behind the
scenes. The short
answer is yes, there will probably be a level of depletion

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:04:12 EDT
yes I did - it was really cool. A number of our team members were checking it out. I provided a
longer response t
o this question on twitter the other day

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:03:35 EDT
from my understanding the Cydroid needs to be fused and the Mentar needs to be primed as well
- don't quote
me but I am not heavily involved in that particular design

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:02:32 EDT
yes definitely. We're quietly hiring in the background, kind of adjusting the team as well to be
better suited for th
e next phase (E2V1 and beyond). There are numerous hires not visible on the team page

Shane 10/27/2023 at 14:01:21 EDT
you will see next month, there is no simple answer here but it is a fair system and boy does it open
a LOT of var
ious strategies .. timing, Players will need to decide what they want to do and when. A lot to take in
and quite a f
ew variables that will take part influencing these decissions

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:59:37 EDT
I believe Mr Green already asked that question

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:59:11 EDT
we are exploring options but it's too early to tell. Civilians will not be a big part of the pre-alpha.
There will be so
me Cydroid interaction first, but that will be an add on to the pre-alpha

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:57:36 EDT
we have not really taken in any religion at this stage

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:56:58 EDT
thanks very much my friend

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:56:44 EDT
haha - I have a lot of interesting images from E2V1 sitting here .. but it would just destroy any
surprises. I just fin
ished a meeting with the senior game dev team .. absolutely mind blowing open world stuff we
have cooking

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:55:00 EDT
Ron is incredible

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:54:37 EDT
for the most part will be 3rd person, but there maybe be switches to first person for certain actions

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:54:01 EDT
there will definitely be more to do this year. I did mention that there would be a little bit of quiet time
leading up t

o November but people don't seem to like quoting that statement

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:52:39 EDT
there should be a few fixes to be had

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:51:24 EDT
as much as I'd like to answer this, I don't want to give any timelines. I'll just say it's a big focus right
now, but we
have things to get through next month first. A lot of things coming out that will lay some final
foundations in the
way the entire land mechanic systems will work long term, including land upgrades, tiers etc.
There really need t
o be live before any token is launched as they have been part of the tokenomics and Essence
generation in the
WP

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:49:38 EDT
no idea - I supposed people have their own reasoning behind their decisions to do things

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:48:59 EDT
what I would add to that is it also won't be delayed significantly, we want to get the pre-alpha live.
I want to have
it live so we can continue building on it post launch

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:47:40 EDT
E2V1 this year is unlikely, but it won't be far away. You will get an idea why when you see the
videos and unders
tand what we are planning to provide for the pre-alpha

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:46:28 EDT
there are a couple of videos, at this point they are not super long like that one last year. Definitely
less than 20
mins

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:45:57 EDT
no, there will not be any available VR for pre-alpha though it is possible to support it

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:45:20 EDT
I would like to have it out next year as it will play a part in E2V1 and I imagine people will want to
trade EPLs for
this purpose

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:44:21 EDT
team will review it, he had one purpose in mind and was escalating.

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:43:03 EDT
I believe so, but I am not 100% sure

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:42:51 EDT
haha - it's already named sorry

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:42:27 EDT
i.e it will be burned

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:42:12 EDT
it will be fused, irreversibly fused

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:41:18 EDT
there will be in the future, but not for the pre-alpha version

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:40:31 EDT
excitement and stress - feels just about right

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:37:59 EDT
Avatar

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:37:04 EDT
just a little sneak peek

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:36:06 EDT
you've just come in here labelling me a liar for I don't know how long, even if I did know I would not
tell you


Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:35:39 EDT
does my head in ..

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:34:46 EDT
for the record, I never paid for a gold tick. I am not even sure how or why they gave it to me. Hope
that settles th
is waste of time

Shane 10/27/2023 at 13:34:17 EDT
just thought I would pop my head in to find someone carrying on about my twitter account,
accusing me of lyin
g? Where do these people come from?

Shane 10/19/2023 at 09:46:24 EDT
yes, this exactly. The last sentence is exactly correct apart from the fact it's an animation
programmer, not an an
imator (we already have that covered). Also we received some really good applicants and
interviews have been
positive so far so looks like we will have the position covered

Shane 10/19/2023 at 09:44:57 EDT
yes, such people choose to ignore facts in order to push their own agenda. I clearly stated an
“Animation Progra
mmer”, i.e a dev that codes animations into a game engine. It’s clearly stated in multiple places,
but of course it
becomes me advertising for an animator to create a video that doesn’t yet exist. That would be
ideal for many to
believe. It may a surprise to some, but you know how you run around in games, pick up items,
shoot guns, jum
p, glide, swim, sit, ride .. all that stuff. Those are animations and if you want nice, **custom
animations** for spe
cific types of game play you need to first create those animations using an animator (we have a lot
of custom an
imations created already by a very talented animator) and then you need a dev to implement those
animations i
nto the game engine to execute on various commands and transition nicely – hence an Animation
Programmer.
We want to hire one to free up time for some of our other senior devs to focus on other important
and essentiall
y more difficult tasks. But of course, there are those who would read it as an animator to simply
create a video a
nd ignore the fact we are hiring an Animation Programmer because we’re building

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:28:55 EDT
you'll have a good experience on E2V1




Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:28:17 EDT




Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:27:46 EDT
umm yes that would be killing it, but GPU is probably the most important part and you've not listed
that

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:26:54 EDT
update videos coming in Nov / Dec

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:26:34 EDT
sorry guys, I actually had a meeting that was supposed to start 25 mins ago and I had to text our
accountants le
tting them know I'm late due to chatting on Discord.. I have to go our my schedule today will be
thrown out as I h
ave fixed meetings. Hope you all enjoy the day ahead

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:25:10 EDT
you'll need a PC. We're spending quite a lot of time on optimisations and it's looking promising so
far you'll prob
ably still need a fairly decent GPU to get the best experience

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:23:08 EDT
and E-ther to synthesise


Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:22:50 EDT
they will in the future, but initially you'll need a Mentar to spawn your Avatar into E2V1

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:20:28 EDT
there are a lot of things we have in the pipeline. I want E2V1 to lead into the EcoSim and for
Players to 'discove
r' key items they need to improve / advance their experience inside E2V1. I feel very strongly about
this so the fi
rst version will be heavily focused on these type of things, promoting exploration and other things.
I think some
will be pleasantly surprised and it will be a good foundation for us to continue building on over time

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:18:21 EDT
thank you. I think the social media app will be a good start to something bigger

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:17:08 EDT
I think there will be a focus there for gamers, but everyone can use it for various purposes.

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:16:20 EDT
we do not have plans for this in the near future. We'd just like to get the token trading on an
external platform fir
st and then take it in steps from there

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:15:27 EDT
there will 100% be many parts linked back to our servers given the activities we want to include for
the pre-alph
a, so it will be online. I know your next question will be about multiplayer, and the answer is we're
aiming for a li
ght version (but no promises for pre-alpha) so people can run around with a few friends. The
multiplayer aspect
may come a little later. You should have a better idea of what this pre-alpha will look like and
involve Nov/Dec

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:12:37 EDT
no I didn't say that, or didn't mean it. I mean we may use the current website to detect, confirm and
once that is l
ooking stable, start OU generation. But it makes more sense to have Raw Material, Building
blocks, factories et
c inside E2V1

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:09:55 EDT
I didn't provide any time frame guidelines here, so you're stabbing in the dark here. What I will say
is that we're
dealing with big data on all of these features, so when something sounds simple, multiply that
difficulty by 100 t
hen more when you need it to work at scale. Even the determination of exact resource occurrence
is complicate
d on a global scale. We have very smart people focused on these systems and I receive reports
on progress as
well as sit in from time to time, it's not straight forward

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:06:56 EDT
then you should be more than fine

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:05:29 EDT
what a brilliant idea ...

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:04:25 EDT
I think those make more sense to take place inside E2V1. It is actually difficult to break away from
progression o
n the website side and draw a line to when we're going to 100% focus on E2V1, harder than
expected as it will s
low down releases and development but will be better long term. For clarity, I would say we'll have
OUs, maybe
OU generation on the website with the plan for raw materials (Weaver)buildings, factories and the
like to be repr
esented inside E2V1. I have mentioned before that the initial version of E2V1 will be focused on
exploration firs
t, more in depth than just flying around with a camera view. That will be our initial focus for E2V1
and the EcoSi
m elements will follow.

Shane 10/17/2023 at 19:00:45 EDT

thank you. A long day ahead though and it's almost 9am and my first meeting will start soon

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:58:55 EDT
that is something the lawyers are dealing with. I receive periodic briefings from them. We use top
tier law firms a
nd I would say everything is amicable so far. I believe we will be able to come to a fair resolution

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:54:34 EDT
yes, the Korean community have some very good sleuths, that's for sure. But my point was that it's
pretty difficul
t to pass full judgement on an app after seeing only a few screenshots

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:52:40 EDT
not at this stage, they are more for E2V1 and will play a very important role in my opinion

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:51:36 EDT
interesting how you know so much from a few screenshots

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:51:00 EDT
we have higher priorities as far as the dev pipeline is concerned so I am just waiting for devs to
implement the s
ystem that will allow us to process partial refunds, something it was not built to handle. Once they
have time to i
mplement we will wrap it up. We simply have too many tight schedules right now but I do want to
get it wrapped
up this year and certainly before any token launch

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:48:11 EDT
interesting question

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:47:15 EDT
no problem MetaHome. The main item I wanted to clarify is that it has not changed our existing
plans for Essen
ce.

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:46:10 EDT
he doesn't need to be replaced and as mentioned above, we have a lot of connections in the
industry already to
get all we need when we need it

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:44:57 EDT
yes, very close now

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:44:06 EDT
yes

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:43:48 EDT
I read this comment earlier, it jumps all over the place and would take a long time to address all the
random poi
nts taking place in there

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:42:12 EDT
oh yes, we should be able to publish it soon. It also made sense to publish it after the land
mechanic release to
give full clarity, but if we publish the land upgrade article first we'll just need to add further details
when the land
mechanic update is released. You'll understand better after the fact

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:38:23 EDT
I plan for them to look different in E2V1. Vastly different. We are exploring options but have other
higher prioritie
s related to Players default Avatars

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:36:48 EDT
which specific updates are you refrerring to?

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:33:12 EDT
I am trying to refrain from such comments sorry Archivium. I will let others deal with the matter
behind the scene
s.

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:31:56 EDT
I agree with you, that would have been ideal but again, it was more complicated than this

Shane 10/17/2023 at 18:27:57 EDT
it's a bit more complicated than that Drew and I can't comment further right now.

Shane 10/17/2023 at 17:40:01 EDT
yes this is 100% in motion

Shane 10/17/2023 at 17:39:26 EDT
sorry, I am just getting my kids ready for school this morning. I don't want them to miss the bus, I'll
come back to
answer a few questions when I'm free but I also have a very busy morning today

Shane 10/17/2023 at 17:34:23 EDT
we know a lot of key people and connections in the crypto space, there is no problem here. I can
also confirm th
is has not changed our plans, including time schedule, for Essence has not changed. Other details
are confiden
tial at this stage, but really quite irrelevant in the overall big picture.

Shane 10/04/2023 at 02:53:31 EDT
exactly, not the smartest approach .. we have also received private messages that are even more
incriminating.
Some who are currently in here pursuing such requests

Shane 10/04/2023 at 02:50:41 EDT
we are aware of these claims and have also received direct threatening messages. Unfortunately
it appears that
a number of these claims are actually part of the co-ordinated attack and these accounts will also
be reported to
Discord + authorities as part of the procedure.

Shane 10/04/2023 at 02:48:33 EDT
ok quick update for everyone. I managed to locate logs containing every detailed action that
occurred today. So
meone's personal account was compromised. I have removed all roles and permissions for this
account. It was
not the Earth 2 Team account. Our team is waiting for this person to come online to notify them of
what's occurr
ed and hopefully find out how their account was compromised. I have removed and / or banned
accounts that w
ere given permissions via the compromised account so I am fairly certain there is no longer any
direct threat. All
accounts are being documented for submission to Discord and further details will be provided to
authorities. I ju
st wanted to let everyone know that we've spent quite a bit of time investigating this today and now
knowing exa
ctly what happened I am fairly confident all is secure now. We will still of course review and
improve and cover t
he points that I listed above earlier today.

Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:50:39 EDT
well aside from a hiccup now in my schedule today and my left and right hand people now have to
stop what the
y were doing and chase up the issues I've listed above, no, I don't see any significant delay from
today's inciden
t!




Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:47:05 EDT
done

Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:45:41 EDT
@se1ke thank you for working on the unbans - I realise you're not well. Much appreciated

Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:45:19 EDT
thank you - I think I've done it

Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:40:27 EDT
I have no idea how to unlock that, someone will need to look at it later. I just added a single
thumbs up for now

Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:27:39 EDT

just for the record, there is no way we would ever dump a URL and tell people to connect their
wallet. And there
will be process for taking Essence out of Earth 2. We have stated a number of times that we will
be providing gu
idelines and details about what to do, step by step.

Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:21:30 EDT
well, that was a crash course in Discord for me, I learned a lot today and figured out a few things
poking around
.. thanks for the team members who reached out to me and lucky I was available to jump on so
the announcem
ent was only up for a few mins before I deleted it and I managed to keep deleting reports until the
issue was res
olved. Our team will look into 1) How this bot managed to sneak on 2) Report the two (and maybe
more) accou
nts to Discord that seem to be related 3) Ensure a full report is sent to the domain service
providing the URL (I b
elieve it's already down, but do not check!) 4) Monitor the contract and other details to see whether
anything furt
her can be uncovered there. I'm very impressed with the E2 Community having the sense not to
trust the link an
d to also know we would not just randomly drop something like that. Also realising if it's not on our
official websit
e, socials etc then be cautious. From what I'm hearing only a couple of hundred dollars was
transferred from thi
s whole debacle so definitely didn't pay off. Well done to those who kept your wits about As a rule,
I would wait t
o ensure that any announcement or detail around anything Web3 related is present on our website
+ discord +
socials + my twitter which would only be followed by information leading up to such an event
before it is to be tr
usted. We would not just drop something random like that.

Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:13:27 EDT
also in case anyone speculates, it's me removing Liz's account from DEV just temporarily as I
found a bot creat
ed by what looks like her account today and we need to investigate that so just for the record it's
me removing t
he DEV role temporarily

Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:07:01 EDT
I will check shortly, I don't want to hand out mod rules to potential impersonators (not saying
anyone could ever i
mpersonate you amp)

Shane 10/03/2023 at 23:05:23 EDT
seems brc20nameservices was also involved

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:57:42 EDT
thank you but I am already on a call with a team member now who is advising

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:50:31 EDT
I can see K-Dizz and Dim L appear

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:49:54 EDT
I am just trying to focus on a couple of other things

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:49:42 EDT
yes I will in a moment. If possible, can someone check which mods currently remain unbanned?

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:47:36 EDT
yes, I have already done that

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:46:35 EDT
I am just checking a few things first

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:46:17 EDT
yes I will in a moment, it seems a mod account (or another) was compromised. Will have security
look into it

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:36:56 EDT
slowbro5101 seemed to be the account hacking, we will also have that reported to discord. Will
continue to mon
itor


Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:26:28 EDT
ok I will in a moment, just checking other places

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:22:43 EDT
done. Is there anywhere else?

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:20:55 EDT
I have ..

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:20:42 EDT
also I have asked our legal team to reach out to the domain host for that URL asap and report it /
request details

Shane 10/03/2023 at 22:19:51 EDT
Our team is looking into the issue. I have disabled all permissions for the bot, but obviously do not
click any link
s shared from unknown names or unknown / unofficial Earth 2 websites

Shane 09/10/2023 at 22:11:03 EDT
btw mods, this appears to be a sexual / extremely inappropriate message directed at very valued
female memb
er of our community.

Shane 09/10/2023 at 22:08:12 EDT
just a note guys that this is not open season on mods please, they do a great job and anyone is
prone to make
a mistake every once in a while. We have chatted about this issue privately and am sure will learn
from it

Shane 09/10/2023 at 21:36:51 EDT
unmute swizz please

Shane 09/10/2023 at 21:36:17 EDT
@thebommer check staff chat

Shane 09/10/2023 at 21:36:11 EDT
I agree

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:49:50 EDT
anyway, I had better stay away from Discord for a while. I was only trying to clear things up so the
notion that m
ost claims were incorrectly marked for rejection did not gain momentum. Please, refer to answers I
have provide
d or statements I have made over the past few days before pushing in new or the same direction.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:45:53 EDT
I may not understand your question then. If nothing else happened right now, i.e rejections were
processed as it
stands - players would have lost 600K Essence in total from participating in E2PRV staking and
gained around
22million Essence

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:39:51 EDT
that number is as it stands right now, if nothing changed

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:38:28 EDT
thank you. I really tried to provide as many answers as possible over the past few days and tried to
provide fair
solutions which consider all Player groups, not just some, while honestly trying to be as fair as
possible with the
group complaining. Rejections have not been processed yet and I will review again, but don't
interpret that as a
nything more than what it is. I am not saying anything will change

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:34:57 EDT
it feels like all the answers I have provided in here the past few days are just ignored in this
statement. Define 't
he stakers are paying 100% for this mistake....they get all the pain' - is that the stakers who made
22 million Ess
ence in profit who are getting all the pain?

Shane hello there. As I wrote the other day, Players should not be in here stating "we have
reviewed our clai

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:25:45 EDT
anyway, I am sorry - I did not come in here to start arguments again. I simply came in to make this
statement as
Players were stating they have found numerous claims that were incorrectly reviewed by the CAT
and if we do
n't respond, it will become the truth on Discord and then everywhere else. All I ask for now is that
people actuall
y read my responses, because I have noticed that I respond or answer a question, leave the chat,
then tomorro
w I will receive updates about Players ignoring (whether intentionally or not, I don't know) answers
I have provid
ed and continuing on with the exact same narrative that I have already cleared up or responded to.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:21:14 EDT
I have already acknowledged, probably more than that, in the messages and statements I have
posted in here a
nd confirmed that being the main reason behind us providing additional options, that were never
part of the origi
nal plan, like appeals and refunds. I am not sure what else I can do at this stage. Appeals are
coming in and the
CAT is being even more lenient but it seems that is still not enough. The conversation here keeps
going around
in circles. I feel I am answering the same question multiple times and each time I provide a
response the angle i
s shifted ignoring all answers I have previously provided.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:14:56 EDT
I just took a look through some of the screenshots I have and they are all too revealing (share too
much details f
or now) except for this one which I have cropped. I guess better than nothing but probably not
what you're looki
ng for.
app.png
41.54KB

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:09:27 EDT
Thank you. The past few days have been very dark for me. Very difficult to get through some of
my meetings wit
h a positive mindset.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:08:23 EDT
I cannot comment on things I know nothing about. But we did clearly state approvals or rejections
would be mad
e at our own discretion. Obviously we've tried to avoid this, but if there were cases that slipped
through (as ther
e is always a chance of human error) we at least had that to fall back onto. Would you prefer we
go back and re
view that claim (if it is true) and reject it as the incorrect decision was made?

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:06:23 EDT
correct. It has made it smoother for the CAT but then they also need to review the appeals as well.
There is a te
am of 4 working incredibly hard at our office.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:05:17 EDT
this is very level headed and I appreciate you making the point. Anyone thinking that I have
enjoyed any part of
the past few days is grossly mistaken.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 13:01:25 EDT
I think the reduced % on the E2PRV system has not a lot. Now we're seeing Players who want to
validate their r
esource vs finding ways to get around the system and claim just to make the Essence reward
back alone. I am
not saying the system is perfect and can always improve. But as it stands now, with the reduced
reward, it seem
s to be working ok.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:58:30 EDT
rejections have not been processed yet and I will always review something after each step. But
that is not a pro
mise of anything and should not be intepretted in any other way than I will always review
something at each ste
p when I can.


Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:56:33 EDT
we made clear we implemented a blanket system that could allow incorrect claims fall into that
area and receive
an automatic kind of approval. I cannot make this any more clear I'm sorry. So the claims that fell
into this categ
ory were not approved by the CAT, but by the system as they fell into the area / blanket. On the
flip side, what if
we did not design the system this way and rejected a claim for a property that later ended up
having gold? We
were very clear on how the system was built

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:53:40 EDT
nice one. This was something the old game design team were supposed to implement but they
didn't, from what
I can tell. It was supposed to be when a Player discovered a new Jewel type (or was the first to
discover it), that
Player could then name it. It's a pity it was not included, but hopefully we can add it somewhere
else in the futur
e

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:51:28 EDT
furthermore to this, we were very clear that is why we left rejections for last, until the end. Very
clear. Why? We
were also clear on that - because some incorrect claims could be caught in the net of good claims.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:50:29 EDT
even if we used accounts that have submitted appeals, I am not sure you would be happy with
results as it stan
ds. It might be better to hope the CAT is even more lenient than they have been and to refrain
from using appro
ved appeals as fuel to state that all claims were incorrectly reviewed

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:48:50 EDT
hi Zeus. I have also answered this question already over the past few days and past few months
on Twitter. I a
m not sure how many times I have to state it. We were clear from the beginning that incorrect
claims could get c
aught up in correct claim areas (boundaries / blanket) when the polygon was drawn. We made this
very clear fr
om the beginning. We also never stated that "if one claim is accepted then you can copy that and
use it elsewhe
re". We set guidelines, not "copy other Player submissions".

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:46:15 EDT
sorry, I must have missed it Predict. But again, if the CAT found all 20 were rejections, or even 1
or 2 were wron
g, would that really be acceptable by those complaining?

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:45:05 EDT
I have made that clear in some posts I made above. I don't really want to revisit it right now. The
main issue was
the way complaints were conveyed and the attacking of my staff etc.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:44:17 EDT
I think we could manage something ..

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:43:59 EDT
you are suggesting I knew what was going on, I didn't. I will say if even clearer - the CAT did not
even know at t
he time and I assumed Players were following the rules. I am not sure how much more clear I can
be and I am s
orry if it does not fit what you want to believe. I am simply telling the truth.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:42:09 EDT
you're welcome and I am very sorry that you had to spend the time appealing. I understand that
would be super
frustrating for Players, I get it. But although I was told that all remaining claims have been checked
over and flag
ged for rejection, I wanted to err on the side of caution and at least give this opportunity to Players
before proce
ssing rejections

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:40:28 EDT
it has nothing to do with this. I don't mind if there are 300 or 400 million Essence at token launch,
so please con
sider twice before pushing this notion

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:39:40 EDT
I don't get this mentality. Any Player supporting something I say is a 'suck up' or making me out to
be a "god" ?
Because they disagree with someone else? It's a very handy label to throw at someone who has a
different per
pective than yours I guess.

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:37:57 EDT
and if all 20 were deemed correct rejections?

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:37:21 EDT
I am sorry, but I was not sitting there reviewing any claims. I assumed that Players were following
the rules set. I
t is unreasonable to believe that I was sitting there reviewing claims as they were coming in, in fact
I don't believ
e even the CAT could do that. They needed weeks to group claims and figure out the processes

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:35:47 EDT
this seems to be a perfect case of an appeal, the purpose for the appeal process. I am sorry if this
has occurre
d, however, I also cannot confirm or deny it is true, and nor can anyone else, until the CAT has
reviewed it them
selves.
Shane I'm sorry, I don't know what is expected of us here. If a Player doesn't appeal their claim
then that is it
Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:33:37 EDT
here is the answer @predict7074

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:33:15 EDT
hi Predict. I do believe I have already answered this question for you so I am not sure why the
same question is
repeated. I will try to find that answer

Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:31:50 EDT
Most Players who ended up blind staking made massive profits. I shared an video of a Korean
staking incredibl
y fast (not me) because there were accusations of bots, so I was helping to show people attacking
the Korean c
ommunity that they were actually staking super fast (had the skills to do so). Unfortunately it was
impossible for
me to tell what data the claimants were providing so I assumed they would be following the rules. I
did point out
that claims would be rejected if incorrect, a number of times, but knowing what I know now, I
would have focuse
d on that point a lot more.

Shane you cannot be sure they were valid until the appeal is reviewed. There most likely would
have been a
Shane 06/29/2023 at 12:25:13 EDT
hello there. As I wrote the other day, Players should not be in here stating "we have reviewed our
claims and fou
nd they were valid". This is subjective for you but objective for everyone else who does not see all
the data nor
know the full details of the claims such Players are referring to. The claim was flagged for rejection
for a reason,
so coming into chat and saying "I found all of my claims (or many of) were incorrectly reviewed" by
the CAT is m
isleading. I received a message from the CAT via my EA today stating "What do we do? Most of
these claims ar
e still invalid and they are being appealed". Then because some appeals are approved does that
mean every cl
aim was reviewed incorrectly? Perhaps the CAT is being even more lenient, yet the Players who
are now benefi
ting from these approved appeals, the Players who have been complaining that these claims were
set to be reje
cted, are now using the fact that appeals have now been approved by the CAT to support a
narrative that there i
s a widespread, incorrect designation of claim status. The bottom line now is, even if the CAT is
lenient and app
roves some of these appeals, it seems those Players are going to use that fact to support a notion
that the CAT
was initially incorrect.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:07:46 EDT
I'm sorry, I don't know what is expected of us here. If a Player doesn't appeal their claim then that
is it. We can't
just blanket approve or refund or we're getting back to that whole "nobody can lose" situation once
again. I can't
do that otherwise we should have said from the very start "there will be no losers, everyone will
win or get a refu
nd" which is not the message we conveyed and I am sure many Players did not interpret it that
way. I have allo
wed for these additional options (appeals and refunds) for Players to act on, to be more than fair
and allow optio
ns for Players. But I don't want this to become a slippery slope toward 'nobody could lose'

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:05:05 EDT
it's ready to be announced, this whole debale delayed that announcement

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:04:48 EDT
sorry, I will come back and check later. I just wanted to clarify and apologise quickly so there is no
further bickeri
ng

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:03:32 EDT
please just refer to that moving forward, it's difficult repeating the same answer and leaves it open
for misinterpr
etation

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:02:59 EDT
if you read my above statement, you will understand what I mean

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:02:44 EDT
sorry, which are you referring to?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:02:17 EDT
I didn't say that, please read my message carefully

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:01:59 EDT
also, I am not sure if Zeus has alt accounts or is referencing mutiple accounts when he claims
figures. I am just
looking at one

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:01:36 EDT
well those are the stats

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:01:14 EDT
it depends on the polygon drawn by the CAT team based on the data they are reviewing. Most
cases I would sa
y yes, but obivously your property may be on the edge of the polygon and not the epicentre ..
therefore 150m m
ay miss out. There needs to be a boundary somewhere

Shane 06/28/2023 at 12:00:06 EDT
I am sure the CAT will review some claims and approve if they are legit or we made a mistake, so
that number o
f 600K can and will (already has) come down

Shane 06/28/2023 at 11:58:55 EDT
thank you - we are

Shane 06/28/2023 at 11:58:19 EDT
my apologies. I was on the way to a meeting looking at data on my laptop with a very active
community discussi
on and my data was a little more detailed than anything the community is able to calculate as it's
directly from o
ur internal db. The total of 600K (actually 618,979.18) is the final amount of Essence that would be
lost overall if
we rejected every claim as it stands right now (that is without allowing or approving any appeals).
So a total of a
round 600K would have been lost by Players overall (if we processed rejections as they stand right
now) and a
gain of around 22M Essence would have been profited overall. I will use Zeus' details as an
example as he has

given permission to make it clear. So he staked 484,956.3 total Essence (amount staked). To date
he was rewar
ded (ie already received back), 598,392.47 making his profit a total of 113,436.17 by using the
E2PRV System.
The number he, and others, are looking at is the amount pending which I had already accounted
for in the "amo
unt staked" (i,e 484,956.3). So I am sorry, the 600K was the total Essence Players would lose
overall from using
E2PRV, while gaining 22M +. I just wanted to clarify that for everyone and apologise.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:36:05 EDT
now I really need to go sorry. Take care

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:35:22 EDT
1 - just sit tight. We are thinking on this already. You'll have the ability to sell them soon enough. 2
- I am not goi
ng to comment directly on this, but let's just say the people I have met so far could not only
believe how incredib
le E2V1 looks (considering it;s the entire planet) and could not believe what type of opportunities
we have ahea
d of us. For example, the position we're in to launch a high utility token like Essence, all the
products and found
ations we've built so far. So even these engines and features we've already built and released on
the website, t
hey kept asking "so you've already build and released this"? etc 3 - I am receiving close advice on
this. That's al
l I can do is rely on the advice I am given and make a deicision from that advice

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:31:33 EDT
yes that was Civilians. If you feel you have enough Civilians then by all means convert. But if
something else for
E-ther comes out in the future please do not blame me for being misleading ...

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:29:37 EDT
thank you and I hope you have a good day also.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:29:15 EDT
@predict7074 as much as I would love to do this, we don't have the proper infrastructure in place
yet. This is so
mething I envisage for the future once all the foundations are set, but this time around it would be
very difficult f
or us, or even me, to just choose a bunch of Players to come up with a solution without hundreds
of thousands
of other silent Players not being part of it

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:27:11 EDT
the problem is, you don't know whether the claim was approved as a blanket claim or a direct
claim. Meaning, y
ou may have an approval because of another Players claim, not your claim. You are welcome to
submit the deta
ils stating "this claim appears to have been approved based on this data while this other claim has
not" If the CA
T finds that is correct, I think they will consider approving

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:15:13 EDT
we already used a huge amount of data. But we knew there would be some places missed so we
opened E2PR
V. With the rewards so high I guess Players tried to reach as far as possible to convince why their
property has
a resource to get the reward

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:13:47 EDT
this would take months to go through and prove every case. One of the reasons we reserved the
right to reject
any claim for any reason from day 1. We've obviously done our best to avoid this, but that's the
reason it was st
ated because we knew there would be Players who would push this agenda

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:12:17 EDT
if you email it will be done. Not sure when.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:11:32 EDT
submit an appeal then. From what I understand our CAT has reviewed and re-reviewed multiple
times. If there i
s a mistake, appeal it.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:10:46 EDT
and Players have gained over 22 million Essence in profit with a tiny fraction of that amount
flagged for rejection
s (not even rejected yet, still giving Players a chance to appeal)

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:08:03 EDT
you are asking for fairness and consistency when also asking that Players are treated differently ?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:07:16 EDT
the problem is that when I leave, things will slowly creep back in. I really hope people just read my
initial messa
ge today and convey opinions with respect, avoid attacking Earth 2 staff and avoid making
statements that soun
d factual when they are guessing

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:05:52 EDT
they have been for the most part. There are a few claims that may be incorrect from almost 80,000
claims. You'r
e focusing on a few which you have the ability to appeal ...

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:05:05 EDT
I know, I have seen your videos and like them. But please explain how this is not fair? Am I
supposed to approv
e all remaining claims for it to be fair ?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:04:02 EDT
this has consumed a massive amount of time behind closed doors. Employees who were
supposed to be worki
ng on announcements, articles, devs running scripts to qualify data, it has delayed numerous
areas

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:02:52 EDT
I completely agree and I welcome people sharing their opinion, respectfully. And also doing so
when not abusin
g Earth 2 staff or myself. I saw messages of you attempting to persuade Players to avoid
defending me publicall
y and leave me to rot with the haters (or something along those lines). I'm not sure that is
respecfully conveying
your opinion

Shane 06/28/2023 at 05:00:41 EDT
if you don't like the fact a timer was not added, request a refund. We cannot develop everything,
as much as I'd
love to flick my fingers

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:59:42 EDT
you have no idea about the inner workings of Earth 2 or all the sub-developments taking place.
Making commen
ts like this based on no full understanding is easy to do. Everyone can run another business
better. Maybe focu
s that ability on running your own project and show everyone how it's done

Shane at this stage probably closer to 100 pages
Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:56:18 EDT
but we may simplify it

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:55:56 EDT
at this stage probably closer to 100 pages

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:55:36 EDT
it's amazing

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:55:24 EDT
I cannot force you to do anything. The options provided are very fair considering the situation

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:54:38 EDT
how is that answer arrogant ?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:53:42 EDT
will be burnt or recirculated for Players - simple

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:52:29 EDT
this may be subjective for you, but to everyone outside it's objective. There are so many variables
nobody can p
ublicly determine with regards to the statement you're making and is an example of what is
causing the problem
s here "I got a bogus claim approved", "I am losing 80,000 Essence".

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:47:01 EDT
I am not trying to get my own way. If I had my own way I would just have approved every claim
and moved forw
ard honestly. But how am I supposed to ignore the Players that didn't stake or used caution? I
cannot turn a blin
d eye I'm sorry. I have made it extremely fair as it is without kicking too much sand in their eyes

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:45:05 EDT
does it matter? There are less than 1,000 Players who lost over all.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:44:15 EDT
I will ask to be followed up

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:43:54 EDT
if you feel you lost out via staking or you believe the E2PRV system was unfair, simply request a
refund
Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:42:55 EDT
which heatmap ?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:42:09 EDT
how can you assure both sides of the community are truly involved? There are a huge number of
Players who d
o not get involved here on Discord.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:39:26 EDT
there are no victims as far as Essence loss so long as everyone follows the options available.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:38:01 EDT
I'll give you props for this : looking through your various accounts you are an absolute machine. I
could not belie
ve how much you've achieved and how you were just everywhere, staking, claiming etc. Incredible
to be honest

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:36:51 EDT
well, I have the figures in front of me. You may need to check your account closer and not make
public assumpti
ons

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:35:34 EDT
so now we have boiled down to my tone? After my staff, myself and Earth 2 has been bashed for
days and my t
one has upset you? I am just trying to be direct, sorry.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:34:20 EDT
I have answered youy already above. You are asking me to make it so nobody could lose. At the
very least, the
Player can submit a request for a refund. Now you want us to automate that refund?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:32:53 EDT
I have the figures right in front of me. There is no one Player that has lost 80K Essence or close.
So again, peo
ple making false statements as facts then if we don't respond, everyone takes it as the truth

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:31:32 EDT
because we have already given options for every problem you state here. I asked you if I could
disclose your pr
ofit once, and have not pushed since.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:29:49 EDT
600K staked. At best (absolute best) with 100% reward that is 1.2M Essence. At worse with 50%
reward that is
900K Essence. I am not sure what you are calculating

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:28:15 EDT
I am not saying this. Please read my statement above. It is mainly focused on the way people
have conveyed th
eir message and my staff being abused

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:27:11 EDT
And again, here we are. Making statements as if they are facts. You are not providing any details
on the locatio
n, claim numbers - just making a statement that is supposed to be accepted as fact. We have no
idea wha the c
laim was or why they were approved but I am sure there was a valid reason by the CAT.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:26:11 EDT
I am not saying he was up or down. It just wasn't a massive amount but that's all I will say

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:25:00 EDT
that is also incorrect anyway

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:23:29 EDT
I am not sure how many times I have to state this. Those claims mostly fell into nets of other
claims that were b
ona fide.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:22:33 EDT
most are free claims from what I understand. Again, we tried to be nice and provide whales with
an option to cre
ate free / non-assurance fee claims after they created 100 assurance fee claims and they abused
it

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:21:17 EDT
that is not true. I have written a full statement above, please check it

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:20:52 EDT
that is a false statement once again. No one Players has lost hundreds of thousands of Essence.
There is only j
ust hundreds of thousands in total

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:20:03 EDT
600K Essence staked does not mean every Essence staked in a on a single claim. That is staked
on all claims f
lagged for rejection

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:18:39 EDT
so now you are asking us to auto refund the 1,000 Players effectively creating a system where
nobody can lose.
Is that fair for everyone else? Otherwise we should state at the beginning of E2PRV that nobody
can lose. Righ
t?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:17:06 EDT
Predict. That is not claims. That is Essence staked. Please stop trying to distort things

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:15:46 EDT
I will come back to read later, I am just travelling to a meeting. Sorry, probably not the best time to
answer right
now.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:14:14 EDT
there is around 600,000 Essence pending rejection right now. Players have profited in over
22,000,000 Essenc
e.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:12:38 EDT
well, there are people abusing my staff, labelling then as incompetent amongst many other things.
All for questi
onable reasons. The same staff that have processed massive gains in Essence for these people.
This has not b
een conveyed in a respectful way. It has been taking place for days now.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:08:58 EDT
the answer to this statement is too long Predict and you know it. You want me to ignore all the
Players that exert
ed caution and did not participate.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:07:51 EDT
I can see all the data in our system. I am not sure what more proof you want?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:07:28 EDT
I am not saying the system is perfectly designed. But we have offerred appeals and refunds.
Please for anyone
else who wants to continue here, take the time to read the message I posted earlier today. All
details are covere
d there. I am just repeating myself here

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:06:25 EDT
it is less than 1 million Essence, much less in total. And that will just go back into the Player pool
ecosystem

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:04:51 EDT
I muted you? Unbelievable .. that is incorrect and highlights exactly what is happening here

Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:04:14 EDT
so if it was flawed and broken - request a refund. The option is there. Why bash Earth 2, our staff,
myself? I'd lo
ve to disclose how much Essence you personally gained via the E2PRV system you claim is
flawed and unfair
Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:00:47 EDT
exactly - we stated that from the start. We could have rejected every claim without any
explanation, but we did
n't.

Shane people don't read. I stated : Less than 1,000 Players will lose Essence using the E2PRV.
That is over
Shane 06/28/2023 at 04:00:22 EDT
this is exactly what I am referring to. People don't read, they make something up or twist it and
then pursue it as
the truth. People don't have time to check facts so they take it as the truth and everything spirals
out of control.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 03:59:22 EDT
people don't read. I stated : Less than 1,000 Players will lose Essence using the E2PRV. That is
overall -stakin
g, claiming, everyghing. How does that become there are less than 1,000 claims?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 03:57:10 EDT
@zeus.mighty do you give me permission to disclose how much profit Essence you've made via
E2PRV?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 03:56:05 EDT
@megadeath_ do you give me permission to disclose how much Essence you profited in staking
on E2PRV ?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 03:54:06 EDT
@ayysprocket do you give me permission to disclose how much Essence you made via E2PRV?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 03:53:43 EDT
@thelordswarrior do you give me permission to disclose how much profit you made in Essence
via E2PRV?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 03:52:56 EDT
I will go back and check the question later

Shane 06/28/2023 at 03:52:43 EDT
@predict7074 sorry, I thought I answered your question earlier. Do you give me permission to
disclose how muc
h Essence you've gained as a profit via E2PRV collectively?

Shane 06/28/2023 at 03:51:31 EDT
Did you guys read my message carefully? It seems people are just ignoring the points and
doubling down agai
n.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 02:14:15 EDT
have a safe day all

Shane 06/28/2023 at 02:14:10 EDT
first one is being prepped

Shane 06/28/2023 at 02:13:58 EDT
thank you. It does mean a lot and it drives me. I need to go now though, I am late

Shane 06/28/2023 at 02:13:39 EDT
I have one target - to make Earth 2. I'd prefer to focus on that but from the reports I received and
the state of Di
scord, I felt I needed to say something. Now back to focusing on making Earth 2.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 02:11:47 EDT
you cannot be sure they were valid until the appeal is reviewed. There most likely would have
been a reason it
was flagged for rejection in the first place, but if wrong, it will be approved

Shane 06/28/2023 at 02:09:52 EDT
when staff start to be attacked and some of the comments I have seen in here, I felt I needed to
make a statem
ent because it's not ok. It's fine for people to complain and voice their opinion, but let's do it
respectfully and avo
id making unfound accusations.
Shane 06/28/2023 at 02:08:39 EDT
I am late for a meeting and need to leave now. I hope things can settle down with people taking a
step back and
thinking about this rationally and E2PRV as a whole, not isolating parts.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 02:07:04 EDT
P2/2 Did my team get some wrong? Yes, possibly – they are human. That’s why I thought we
should put the ext
ra effort in and setup a claim appeal process as opposed to just rejecting. Anyway, I hope those
numbers paint
a clearer picture for people and this just has to stop now please. The abuse, the accusations, the
calls for heads
to roll. If you want to make a statement, please do so respectfully, consider the circumstances
carefully and if yo
u’re unsure about something then write it in a way that conveys the fact that you’re not 100% sure.
If at the very
least these things are heeded to we should see an improved Discord where Players actually want
to visit and di
scuss things respectfully – this is the bottom line.

Shane 06/28/2023 at 02:06:41 EDT
P1/2 this needs to stop. If you look and try hard enough you can find a reason to justify anything.
People here ar
e picking on a few claims from over 75,000 and labelling my staff as bad, idiots, incompetent etc. It
needs to sto
p. Do you think perhaps there is a reason shops hang signs in stores stating that abuse of staff will
not be tolera
ted? Irrespective of personal opinions on the E2PRV system, these insults and unfounded
accusations are not
ok. One person says something and if it’s not responded to it soon becomes truth. We can’t shut
down every fal
se accusation in here, we all have other jobs to do. I have been provided screenshots of
comments made over t
he past few days, some from key members of our community, and it’s beyond disappointing to
read. It’s mentall
y distressing to be honest. I ask my staff not to read Discord, but no doubt some do, and honestly
who would fe
el happy and confident about their job or even working with Earth 2 after reading some of the
comments from Pl
ayers who have already gained so much from the platform. Some of the loudest complainers in
here have gaine
d over 150K + profit in Essence from staking. The same people complaining about me on
comments I made stat
ing the first round was a unique opportunity. I am looking at the stats right now, 150K+, 115K+,
100K+ each in p
rofits from E2PRV. Some screaming that E2 is a mess and the CEO/Founder needs to be
replaced. Profits thes
e Players have gained from the CAT doing their job and my team creating opportunity after
opportunity so try an
d avoid rejections, such as the most recent appeals process. All of the above and those
complaining cannot sim
ply convey their disappointment respectfully? Without resorting to labelling staff as incompetent,
running with un
confirmed details, overlooking any historic events and pushing agendas? Here are a few facts I’d
like to throw in
to the arena. Less than 1,000 Players will lose Essence using the E2PRV. Every other player
gained Essence. If
Players feel they fit into this category they can request a full refund which was never on the table
originally and i
s beyond being fair. Those complaining about how broken the E2PRV system is, how incompetent
our staff is a
nd so forth also have the option to request a refund of Essence given they believe the system is
broken and unf
air for them. There is not ‘millions’ of Essence facing rejection, not even close to 1 million in total.
In fact, the Es
sence pending rejection as it stands right now, is less that 2% of the Essence gained / profited
from E2PRV. Thi
nk on that for a moment. AND Players have the option to appeal. The appeal process was
introduced to give Pl
ayers an opportunity to contest a flagged rejection. It was setup to provide fairness for Players,
even though we
reserved the right to reject any claims from the beginning for any reason, for balancing purposes.
But we have a
voided doing that, choosing the hard route though it does not seem to be very much appreciated.
Chat in here i
s focusing on a handful of claims that are flagged for rejection which apparently did not have
images or PDFs u
ploaded (this is not confirmed our side by the way, I said we would look into it. It’s possible that the
Player cann
ot see the images but we can). But we’re not talking about the thousands of claims where Players
(intentionally)
did NOT upload images or PDF files yet our staff still went to check those claims and APPROVED
them.

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:48:00 EDT
also - most Players have made incredible rewards from staking in the original E2PRV and a huge
amount of res
ource locations were confirmed. Why keep focusing on a few vs the many

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:47:13 EDT
sorry guys, I literally have an international flight in a few hours and I have things I need to do
before that. Hope
you all enjoy the rest of your weekend

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:46:22 EDT
how do you know the CAT has not been generously approving? From what I have seen in their
reports, they hav
e been extremely generous. You can't say they have not been generous simply because a claim
here or there w
as not approved. If you don't agree with it, submit an appeal. We need to move on

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:45:05 EDT
not really, we have set some precedent and provided good guidelines. I guess those who continue
will have an
upper hand in whatever resource they are claiming successfully

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:44:00 EDT
look at raiding .. there are massive opportunities there right now. Players are possibly also
overlooking the fact t
hat they are accumulating Cydroids, Civilians (etc) which will not only be useful later in the EcoSim
but will be s
ellable between Players. So even though it looks like that Essence balance is decreasing, you're
actually gainin
g tradeable objects as well. We're just not reflecting this very well right now so I have someone
working on that

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:42:09 EDT
if there was a mistake in uploading or similar mistake the Player can submit an appeal

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:41:02 EDT
I know, there is also that argument. There are arguments from both sides and I tried my best to
find middle grou
nd during a very hectic schedule.

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:39:58 EDT
yes, it's a difficult situation and I hate seeing the community divided. But I needed to consider all
angles, not just
one or two this time. Some may not agree and I'm sorry if that is the case, but I could not ignore
the fact that so
me Players also avoided staking or erred on the side of caution so I needed to make the solution
fair for them al
so.

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:38:04 EDT
no sorry, they are quite confidential sorry. Obviously looking at them for the benefit of E2. I guess I
can say ther
e is at least one billionaire we're speaking with about something, so will be cool to meet him.

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:36:47 EDT
yes, there are a few things almost in QA incoming. Some you guys know about and others you
don't know about
yet, but I am sure many will find useful and interesting

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:35:45 EDT
if the resource was approved already I don't think we should be removing that. At the end of the
day, that's what
we wanted so I would be saying that will stay

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:34:55 EDT
I think there would be cases where it would be one vote for 1 Player and cases where land
ownership (tiles) wo
uld vote. It's something that has been in the back of my mind for a long time but there are always
other things th
at need to be done first

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:33:48 EDT
I have a very busy 4-5 weeks coming up, but I'll ask my EA to set a reminder and if you guys
remind me on twitt
er or something through August I am happy to look at working with some in the community to draft
guidelines. I t
hink it would be cool

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:31:43 EDT
I think once we get into E2V1 I'd like to use a tool like the E2PRV system for Players to vote on
rules/constitutio
ns for different areas they own land on in Earth 2. I am not sure how it would work but it's on my
radar

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:29:25 EDT
if they are older than say the last few days then please check the announcement and examples
provided for silv
er and copper to determine whether you should cancel your claim or not

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:26:24 EDT
I think we've cleared up in the past that it's not me. I could not login to that account even if I
wanted to, I have n
o idea what the password is and I don't have access codes.

Shane 06/24/2023 at 22:23:01 EDT
Good idea. Regarding your issue of the images not uploading, it’s simple, just email support or fill
out the form a
nd let our team know. They are very reasonable and will handle it for you. I am travelling and have
some extrem
ely big meetings coming up over the next few days/weeks. If I did not have such a demanding
schedule right no
w I would have dropped into chat. I think if people step back and take their emotions and personal
benefit out of
the equation, they will see the solution provided is a fair one : 1- Players have a 6 week window to
appeal Claim
s they feel were incorrectly flagged for rejection, for whatever reason. 2- Players who feel they lost
more Essenc
e than gained (for WHATEVER reason they feel is valid – whether it be Earth 2’s fault, or my fault
– whatever th
ey perceive) have the chance to request a refund (of which all of 2 people have requested so far).
I like the seco
nd option because it truly does provide an option for any smaller Players who may not have had a
lot of Essenc
e and lost it (I don’t think there would be many, or any but still), a chance to regain the Essence
they staked. Th
e Players some are claiming to be advocating for. I’m sorry if people don’t like it but sometimes a
direct approac
h is needed and I considered everyone in this approach. Perhaps if I had been given more time
and people wer
e not escalating the situation so quickly to the point I have staff contacting me directly, a different
solution may h
ave been forthcoming. We have people in here who have gained a lot of Essence via staking
jumping up and do
wn claiming it’s unfair and they have now been given the opportunity to reset their involvement
with the E2PRV
system. But instead of taking this opportunity they have decided to resort to personal attacks, one
sided or disto
rted versions of historical events and even threats. I’m not sure whether they are truly making a
stand for small
Player accounts (refund now provides a solution for this argument) of if it’s because they would
also lose the re
wards from the system they are ridiculing, the same rewards most of them have received due to
the confidence
gained from my excitement about the E2PRV system operating at scale (and giving Players
something to do), a
nd I’m talking about as it stands now, tens of thousands of Essence gained through staking by
some of the indiv
iduals in here complaining. I can’t control what Players submit in their claim and that some Players
may have su
bmitted weaker claims toward the end in a rush to try and gain as much Essence as possible
perhaps. For thos
e who feel they lost out overall on E2PRV for whatever reason, you have the option to request a
refund. For tho
se who feel the CAT got your claim review wrong, you have the option for an appeal. I’m sorry, I
don’t have time
to stop and chat, I have a flight in a few hours. I just hope some in the community can step back,
remove their e
motion and consider the solution from all sides, including the side from Players who did not stake
or used cautio
n staking. I mean at the end of the day, even most of those who threw caution to the wind still
made a lot of Ess
ence, but I am sure a minority also lost more than gained or they just feel the E2PRV system didn’t
work for the
m and those Players now have the refund option for that.

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:21:01 EDT
I really need to get back to this doc guys, sorry. I don't want to get too distracted.

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:20:39 EDT
thank you - a lot of hard work behind the scenes but all coming together

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:20:13 EDT
I am not confirming a date sorry, but as mentioned, it will come out closer to the token launch.

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:19:40 EDT
yeah, it's coming along. Raiding and Civilians are great features to test drive with!

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:18:34 EDT
I have explained pretty clearly above, please read and check screenshot image

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:17:32 EDT
ahh I forgot to upload the image with the above explanation - I will paste the explanation here
again with the ima
ge / screenshot Part 1/2 Exactly. But nonetheless I will be asking my team to consider some are
finding it hard t
o understand and I am sure they will release some short videos or clearer details over the next few
weeks after
the official announcement confirming Civilians release is made. For now, I’ve just put this together
quickly as a g
uide for anyone who is struggling to understand the logic – sorry for the basic paint edit skills but
hope it helps.
NOTE I have selected Blue Bird (BB), Green Tree (GT), Pink Candy Cane (PC) and Purple Flower
(PF) as my T
ARGET ICONS Level 1 Raid Commander The L1 RC would Raid and re-raid target 1 (over and
over) in this cas
e. This is because I have selected BB, GT, PC and PF as Target Icons and the most recent from
those in the rec
ent list is the PF, therefore the L1 RC targets that and will keep retargeting because it’s Level 1. IF
I ONLY set m
y Target Icon as BB, then my RC L1 would target and re-raid target 2. IF I ONLY set my Target
icon as Cherry, t
hen my RC L1 would target and re-raid target 9. IF I ONLY set my Target icon as CC, then my RC
L1 would targ
et and re-raid target 10. Remember, I am viewing the RECENT list here Level 2 Raid Commander
In the current
scenario, the L2 RC would raid target 2 next. Once Target 2 is raided, the new target 2 would be
Purple Flower
on the Recent list and the L2 RC would raid that because I have PF selected in my TARGET
ICON group. The L
2 RC would keep raiding target 2 because the two most recent target properties are set with
relevant TARGET I
CONS. IF I ONLY set my Target Icon as Blue Bird (BB), then my RC L2 would next raid target 2
and then keep r
aiding target 2 because there is only 1 BB in the Recent list (that we can see, if there is a BB in the
recent list o
n another page then the RC L2 would target that one next). IF I ONLY set my Target Icon as
Green Tree (GT), t
hen my RC L2 would next raid target 4 and then target 3. After those two targets are raided they
will become tar
get 1 and target 2 on the new recent list and the RC L2 will keep raiding them unless the Player
changes the TA
RGET ICONS or manually raids a new PF target which will move that target higher up on the
Recent list. IF I O
NLY set my Target Icon as PF, then my RC L2 would next raid target 5 because target 1 is already
a PF and bei
ng raided. Again, the new target 1 and target 2 on the recent list will become Purple Flowers if the
Player does n
ot change the TARGET ICONS or manually raids another PF property. Level 3 Raid Commander
In the CURRE
NT scenario, a L3 RC would raid target 3 next, because PF, BB and GT are set TARGET ICONS.
The RC L3 wo
uld continue to focus on target 3 as the Recent list is updated after each raid is complete,
effectively raiding the
3 target properties in a loop. IF I ONLY set my Target Icon as GT, then my RC L3 would first raid
target 6, then 4
and then 3. After those targets are auto raided they will become the new target 1, 2 and 3 and the
RC L3 will ke
ep auto-raiding target 3 unless the Player changes the TARGET ICONS or raids a GT property
manually to cha
nge the recent order. IF I SET MY Target Icon as BB and GT, then my RC L3 would raid target 4
(GT), then 3 (G
T) and then 2 (BB), effectively setting the 3 most recent to GT and BB until the Player changes the
TARGET IC
ONS or manually raids new GT or BB targets.
TargetIcon.png
46.04KB

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:17:04 EDT
also just quickly, some comments about Target Icons disappearing. We're not aware of this issue
being widespr
ead. If anyone is experiencing this then : 1 - Double check if you're pressing "APPLY" once you
set, if you don't i
t WON'T BE SAVED! 2 - There is a pagination bug we are aware of and working on a fix. Basically,
it skips page
s of properties in the raid menu when you change from Page 1 to Page 2 etc. For now, to avoid
this, trying using
the up / down arrow toggle

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:14:51 EDT
thank you. Right back at you.

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:12:42 EDT
Part 2/2 Remember, these are game mechanics and they are designed to reward Players that
level up. So each
time the RC levels up you get to rotate raid a new target property as part of the level up boost.
Over time we pla
n to release high levels with further boosts, so some of the things Players are talking about might
be included in
high level perks we have planned. Once the RC hits Level 6, this will change to unlimited, so the
RC will find the
very oldest target property on the recent list with the relevant TARGET ICON and raid it then
repeat. So you cou
ld have your RC working through 20 properties, 100, or 3 or 1. Whatever you decide and it’s very
easy to chang
e as you only need to adjust a few TARGET ICONS to create new raid lists. I am not going to go
into potential st
rategies, but there are many. Probably properties with lower quality targets might have more
TARGET ICONS to
work through while properties with better quality targets might just have 1 or 2 TARGET ICONS
but a longer nu
mber of target properties. Once Jewel Slotting is released there will be even more strategic
opportunities, not to
mention fast turn around times for auto raids if set up correctly. Hope this helps some to
understand for now. I d
o not have time to read over what I wrote so there may be typos and if there is anything
contradicting then go wi
th the majority of other explanation I have provided. Sorry I can’t stay to chat, it’s 3am Monday
morning and I ha
ve an extremely important document I need to get back to so I need to continue focusing on that.
Hope you all e
njoy the rest of your weekend.

Shane 06/04/2023 at 13:12:26 EDT
**NOTE: **I forgot to add the image I use as a reference for the below explanation, the image is
posted a little fu
rther down in chat. Part 1/2 Exactly. But nonetheless I will be asking my team to consider some
are finding it har
d to understand and I am sure they will release some short videos or clearer details over the next
few weeks aft
er the official announcement confirming Civilians release is made. For now, I’ve just put this
together quickly as
a guide for anyone who is struggling to understand the logic – sorry for the basic paint edit skills
but hope it help
s. NOTE I have selected Blue Bird (BB), Green Tree (GT), Pink Candy Cane (PC) and Purple
Flower (PF) as m
y TARGET ICONS **Level 1 Raid Commander** The L1 RC would Raid and re-raid target 1 (over
and over) in t
his case. This is because I have selected BB, GT, PC and PF as Target Icons and the most recent
from those in
the recent list is the PF, therefore the L1 RC targets that and will keep retargeting because it’s
Level 1. IF I ONL
Y set my Target Icon as BB, then my RC L1 would target and re-raid target 2. IF I ONLY set my
Target icon as C
herry, then my RC L1 would target and re-raid target 9. IF I ONLY set my Target icon as CC, then
my RC L1 wo
uld target and re-raid target 10. Remember, I am viewing the RECENT list here **Level 2 Raid
Commander** In
the current scenario, the L2 RC would raid target 2 next. Once Target 2 is raided, the new target 2
would be Pur
ple Flower on the Recent list and the L2 RC would raid that because I have PF selected in my
TARGET ICON g
roup. The L2 RC would keep raiding target 2 because the two most recent target properties are
set with relevan
t TARGET ICONS. IF I ONLY set my Target Icon as Blue Bird (BB), then my RC L2 would next
raid target 2 and
then keep raiding target 2 because there is only 1 BB in the Recent list (that we can see, if there is
a BB in the r
ecent list on another page then the RC L2 would target that one next). IF I ONLY set my Target
Icon as Green T
ree (GT), then my RC L2 would next raid target 4 and then target 3. After those two targets are
raided they will b
ecome target 1 and target 2 on the new recent list and the RC L2 will keep raiding them unless the
Player chan
ges the TARGET ICONS or manually raids a new PF target which will move that target higher up
on the Recent
list. IF I ONLY set my Target Icon as PF, then my RC L2 would next raid target 5 because target 1
is already a P
F and being raided. Again, the new target 1 and target 2 on the recent list will become Purple
Flowers if the Play
er does not change the TARGET ICONS or manually raids another PF property. **Level 3 Raid
Commander** In
the CURRENT scenario, a L3 RC would raid target 3 next, because PF, BB and GT are set
TARGET ICONS. Th
e RC L3 would continue to focus on target 3 as the Recent list is updated after each raid is
complete, effectively
raiding the 3 target properties in a loop. IF I ONLY set my Target Icon as GT, then my RC L3
would first raid targ
et 6, then 4 and then 3. After those targets are auto raided they will become the new target 1, 2
and 3 and the R
C L3 will keep auto-raiding target 3 unless the Player changes the TARGET ICONS or raids a GT
property man
ually to change the recent order. IF I SET MY Target Icon as BB and GT, then my RC L3 would
raid target 4 (G
T), then 3 (GT) and then 2 (BB), effectively setting the 3 most recent to GT and BB until the Player
changes the
TARGET ICONS or manually raids new GT or BB targets.

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:29:52 EDT
ok sorry guys, I need to go. I have already stayed much longer than anticipated. I was only going
to answer that
one question but then seeing the other questions I wanted to provide some further responses but I
do need to le
ave now. Really nice catching up and hope you all enjoy the remaining part of your weekend.
Hopefully we will
have Civilians onto prod sooner than later so we can keep moving onto the next things!

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:27:42 EDT
If I understand your question correclt then yes, once a Civ hits full XP the remaining XP will divert
to other Civs
until they also hit full XP. After that XP will stop until we release higher levels, so effectively XP will
stop being ea
rned if Civs on the property hit full XP. I guess some Players will alternate their Civs around once
transportation
comes in
Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:24:51 EDT
well, it will be a beginning and a bit different. I'm actually looking forward to an alternative as well
so hopefully ot
hers also give it a try looking for the same thing!

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:24:08 EDT
hi there. 1) I am not sure what you are asking? Do you mean how much does Earth 2 make from
the sale % of J
ewels? 2) We use the profits to maintain service, build products and run the company. Game
development (or in
our case Metaverse Platform development) costs a lot .. not sure if people realise how much these
things cost t
o develop. Just look at some of the big games and you get an idea.

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:22:18 EDT
hi there. I am good thanks and hope you are too. I'm confused about these eggs, I thought all was
finalised

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:21:15 EDT
nice observation!

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:20:37 EDT
I am honoured to have that effect lol

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:19:40 EDT
via the EcoSim - yes. Same with Civs, via EcoSim relocation. Players can relocate via EPLs
though

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:19:03 EDT
you're talking about future RC perks on higher levels I think ..

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:18:34 EDT
EXACTLY! This is a lot harder to design for than it looks and I am sure there will be a lot of
balancing. But you'r
e exactly correct!

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:17:49 EDT
I think it suggests that you can use the portal to jump into other game experiences. Btw, I love
space games, I n
ever played Eve Online, I think my wife would have killed me, but I loved X2, Freespace and a
bunch of other si
milar space games (I think I even played a Star Trek RTS game to get my space fix once) - so
yes, long term I d
efinitely want some form or space travel though I imagine it will take a bit to achieve via the
EcoSim to get there

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:15:17 EDT
You're welcome and yes, I think upkeep will be a thing. Not sure about destroying though, that
might be opt in

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:14:31 EDT
no comment but it's no secret that I like this approach and frame of thinking

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:13:52 EDT
I think I answered this question already?

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:13:19 EDT
brilliant! That's what I want to hear! I was actually supposed to leave 15 mins ago but will plan to
test Civs a bit
more on s2 later tonight

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:12:37 EDT
I think there needs to be some proper well defined game loops + more to do before we do that, but
yes, when th
ose are in place we do have more initiatives planned

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:11:35 EDT
exactly .. and we've had a few of those. A few who didn't make it in and then revolted against E2
for that sole pu
rpose as well .. it's a crazy world

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:10:50 EDT
oh yes, I asked them to remove that so should work for non-KYC'd on s2. I also asked them to
remove KYC req
uirement for Civilians in general. I don't think we need KYC for Players to use Civilians so that was
a bit of an ov
ersight / mistake

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:09:51 EDT
it depends on how many issues there are to resolve and how many tweaks. I will try to draw a line,
if the mecha
nics look good and the improvements to UI/UX/general flow are updated then I'll be pushing for
release. There i
s always that issue of how well it will actually function at scale but hopefully no problems there.
We handled Rai
ding pretty well given how much usage it gets daily

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:07:36 EDT
we're always thinking about this but it's hard to involve people in certain areas. But we are
constantly on the loo
kout. I mean two of our best recent hires have been directly from the community. Johan, is
absolutely amazing, j
ust such a breath of fresh air, so proactive, relentless in finding solutions, and Ronald, who has
been amazing w
ith QA but not only QA, also suggesting improvements, hands on, handling tasks extremely
efficiently etc. I can
not speak highly enough of both. So yes, we're looking for talented people to commit but it's often
the right fit an
d the fact they will be dedicated to helping out etc

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:03:20 EDT
Good to you! Can I reply with approximate year?! If so, then 2023.

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:02:40 EDT
well, something needs to happen there. Marco designed the Jewels to require too much Essence
to craft and n
ever fixed it. These type of things mean that someone else needs to spend more time fixing it
later. We are work
ing on some plans and will try to balance it as best as possible, we always do, but it is an area that
needs some
revamping

Shane 05/21/2023 at 00:00:07 EDT
well I just pointed out that there is nothing I can share without diminishing any level of surprise
people might get
so it's the same question. A bit hard for me to answer, but there are a few cools things that will be
demoed in tha
t footage

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:58:58 EDT
I can't really tell you why, I mean R/GA were really blown away by the Earth 2 concept and the
concept for the S
ocial Media app. I guess they see us as an interesting future brand and listed us up there perhaps

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:57:14 EDT
I can't say really. SOme people claim they are on actual coal mines, then the CAT shows they are
20 km away fr
om the nearest coal mine. So it's hard to say as I don't know your case off hand, but it's hard to
trust what peopl
e say on the internet at the best of times

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:56:02 EDT
does that mean you will no longer love me once the token has launched? Alas, perhaps I should
consider delayi
ng the token so as not to lose this line of affection so quikcly


Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:55:04 EDT
well I think you're observation explains why. You can't have a high quality product without it taking
time, otherwis
e it's just a scam or money grab without any real intention of building what they claim to be
building. For exampl
e, some projects come out with super impressive concept art or small scale demos with no
intention on actually
building these things, they just want to ride the hype train then disappear. When I launched E2
back in Nov, 202
0, we used the term Metaverse before it was really mainstream, because it accurately defined
what we wanted t
o build. Then everyone jumped on the Metaverse bandwagon once FB changed their name to
Meta after Mark r
eceived a little tap on the shoulder from someone.. anyway, I think the governments and
companies will do anot
her 180 turn back into the Metaverse once there is a nice looking interactable product without
sloppy 3D graphic
s, as you say, and demand will return. We're just focused on building that product step by step

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:49:33 EDT
time is yet undetermined / unknown for the current task. Sometimes task end times cannot be
determined

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:48:48 EDT
I'm pretty sure that video auto deleted after some time .. but yeah, hope you're not right on this one
lol

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:48:06 EDT
cool! Look forward to it!

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:47:24 EDT
ok lost my spot .. have to find it

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:46:51 EDT
I'll have to leave momentarily but will try to answer a few more from where I am up to

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:46:20 EDT
very good question but unfortunately I don't have the exact answer. What I can say is that the
bigger the buildin
g or more unique etc the harder and longer it will take to build. It's hard to answer because a small
player buildin
g a certain type of building might take weeks when another larger player with the ability to
generate resources f
ast might take days. So hard to answer precisely

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:44:20 EDT
are you referring to the Raiding UI or Player profile? I know there is a bug in the Raiding UI, but it's
not game br
eaking so we will probably assign resources to fix it later. If it's the raiding UI bug then just reselect
sort by prope
rty size again and it will work fine.

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:42:54 EDT
hi there. I still need to evaluate the system once it's fully ready and then we will decide. The plan
was to allow li
mited access initially but it depends on a few things

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:42:03 EDT
see other response above please

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:41:45 EDT
well, originally there were no plans for any XP / Levelling systems so glad you find it interesting.
Imagine Civilia
ns without it .. long term there will likely be different types of systems for different types of
behaviour but I don't f
oresee Players ever being able to instantly synthesise a Lvl 6 Civilian .. though there might be
other ways to trai
n new ones .. wink

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:39:36 EDT
hi there Kelvan. Nothing I can share as it would reduce the surprise for when the next footage is
released


Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:38:42 EDT
in the future, yes. I actually have an entire concept planned around this but I have to hold back
and not get ahea
d of myself. We need the foundations set first then will evaluate where AI is up to at that point

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:37:41 EDT
mainly social media app. It's a massive project itself .. just goes to show how difficult these things
are even for
massive companies like R/GA.
Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:36:41 EDT
that is the plan - so we'll see

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:36:24 EDT
yes they do actually. They ask me questions about it as they all enjoy playing games

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:35:31 EDT
thanks @aussione ! I'm glad you understand and appreciate the level of complexity behind these
mechanics. I g
uess Earth 2 is unique in that it's bringing everyone along for the development journey, mistakes
and all. You gu
ys are experiencing first hand what many game studios go through behind closed doors and why it
takes so lon
g to get things right. We take extra time I guess because whatever we release is public instantly so
we need to
put a lot of time and thought into things before they hit prod .. we're going through what every
studio goes throu
gh, it's just more public and scrutinised

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:32:24 EDT
I think my dancing days are over - I'm glad there are no copies of that video floating around lol

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:31:47 EDT
that's because they are not visualised yet. It's difficult to design and release mechanics before you
have even th
e first version of your intended interface, but we're trying to do that in order to give Players
something to do whil
e waiting (as opposed to disappearing for years) while still designing core parts.

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:29:36 EDT
ironically that may be true ..

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:28:58 EDT
that will definitely be at a later date, too many other things with higher priorities

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:28:26 EDT
we still have 10,000 sitting there ready to go, but it's just a matter of finding the time to work out
the final logistic
s. We're working on so many things in parallel we just need to prioritise, but I'm with you, I want
one as well

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:27:20 EDT
funny you say that .. something interesting is on the horizon there. Might be sooner than later

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:26:41 EDT
the team is still working through claims flagged for rejections though the 'false-negative' flagged
claims are thinn
ing out. If they continue to thin out like this the rest will probably maintain their rejection status as
the CAT needs
to be focused faster turn around for approvals on new claims for Silver, Copper and the multitude
of other Reso
urce about to be confirmed for the EcoSim. We do need to draw a curtain on the original E2PRV
claims and put
them to bed

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:23:03 EDT
and again, this Jewel system is something that Marco solely created without a great deal of long
term vision, so
myself and the new team are left to improve it and fill in the missing pieces but I'm confident we
will work somet
hing out. I'd like them to have an integral part in many facets of E2

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:21:45 EDT
we have early details to release, so I imagine it won't be longer than a few months. The thing is,
Brilliants will pr
obably receive other perks over time as well, so the details we have to release would not really
spell out the fina
l abilities of Brilliants

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:19:37 EDT
I think P2P contracts are more effective once the token has launched so P2P contracts will be
something releas
ed either just before the token launch or shortly after

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:18:41 EDT
yes, it should be very interesting!

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:18:05 EDT
I have always planned to get those sorted before Essence launches so those Players don't miss
out. Unfortunat
ely we have higher priorities, but we have not forgotten and plan to solve before the token
launches

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:16:33 EDT
I have rough concepts now, but nothing super fleshed out. I would like to introduce a more direct
form of PvP us
ing Cydroids, but again, not fully fleshed out as there are higher priorities

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:15:30 EDT
sorry, nothing for now. We're trying to set the foundations for E2V1 and even some early access,
it's very compli
cated but we're heavily focused on it - just takes time. Once we have these foundations released
we'll be lookin
g to integrate other assets / concepts progressively

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:14:08 EDT
yeah ,they definitely need a little more love

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:13:48 EDT
yes, they very much are still happening and we've spent a lot of time working out how they fit in.
Any no worries,
it's Sunday early afternoon here right now, I'd like to pop in more often but I'm just so busy with so
many things i
nside my head I usually tend to only find time before I'm about to sleep or over the weekend when
things with th
e team are a bit quieter

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:11:37 EDT
yes, even flying around inside E2V1 at speed (i.e going anywhere you want almost instantly), it's
VERY difficult t
o find the exact same location again because the world is SO BIG! So I absolutely agree that the
best way to di
scover / revisit a place will be via the EPL hence my purpose of coming up with the EPL concept. I
would dare s
ay that once we have E2V1 live and start to come back to these earlier concepts, like EPLs, we
will design and f
lesh out robust systems for them which I would think also includes things like trending EPLs, EPLs
to discover e
tc etc

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:08:24 EDT
upgrading of T2 to T1 would still be something once Essence has launched and has an external
value determin
ed but there also may be a few surprises in this area, giving some interesting potential perks to T2
(potential, no
t confirming but it's on my mind!) Merging is also roughly drafted but there are so many edge
cases with that on
e, like how far we go, so it's there but not high on agenda due to other features we need to push
out which are b
locking other upcoming planned releases

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:06:12 EDT
5 minutes each

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:06:01 EDT
the first step is always the hardest and you don't need to show your face if you feel shy. If you feel
compelled to
do it, then just take the leap is my suggestion


Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:05:10 EDT
oh btw I asked devs to change synthesising time to 5 minutes as opposed to 24hrs on s2 to make
it easier for Pl
ayers to test it out. They will be 24hrs on prod though when deployed

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:04:12 EDT
hi there. Hope you're well too. Well, I guess it's up to the Player with how they want to refer to their
Civilians, ho
wever, I believe some Civilians might be more sycophant like than others (i.e Rebels).

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:02:57 EDT
I'll think about it, I just have a lot on these days but I will try to fit something in if possible.
Otherwise hopefully so
me of the community will make videos to simplify it. When I make a video I feel obligated or
responsible to shar
e each and every detail, I try not to miss or overlook things, which in turn lengthens the duration of
the video an
d makes things look more complicated than they really are.

Shane 05/20/2023 at 23:00:17 EDT
it depends what type of game you want to play. For example, if you want to run around inside
E2V1, be hands o
n and get things done yourself, then you can. You may also be able to have a support crew, assets
etc - but yo
u'll need to look after those some how. So it depends on what type of Player you want to be. If you
plan to run a
large EcoSim outfit then Civilians will be pretty darn important, however, if you have a small set
with just a little l
and we want to allow Players to be able to handle that alone. So it depends what your goals are
but we're desig
ning for different Player groups and different levels of ownership

Shane 05/20/2023 at 22:57:41 EDT
hi there. From what I understand there is no set distance / radius for any specific resource, let
alone it being dep
endant on the frequency. Each case is subjected to a different set of rules (though I admit there
might be somet
hing I am not aware of, I did not set out the original rules for this, that was Marco)

Shane 05/20/2023 at 22:54:35 EDT
good point and I have already suggested there should be a link between the two + display # of
Civs on property
in Raiding menu too (along with a bunch of other suggestions I've made so there will be
improvement tweaks in
coming over the next few days I imagine)

Shane 05/20/2023 at 22:52:06 EDT
great suggestion. I have not had as much time to be hands on testing Civilians as I was with
Raiding so have ju
st started to personally test it out on stage2 today. I also noticed this and have already made a
request to updat
e along with a bunch of other suggestions which I've asked the team to update. I might also
recommend we ope
n another suggestion channel in Discord for any community feedback but my plan is to first focus
on the mecha
nics working correctly + any other essential tweaks so we can get it live onto prod as early as
possible.

Shane 05/20/2023 at 03:57:38 EDT
we're looking into the KYC issue. It is not supposed to be a requirement and will therefore be
removed as a rest
riction once we find out why it's blocking non-KYC accounts

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:45:04 EDT
tonnes, but none I can release publicly yet

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:44:42 EDT
exactly and you're most welcome!

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:44:16 EDT
none I can go over now, that's for sure!

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:44:04 EDT

coming

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:43:57 EDT
24 hrs each

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:43:02 EDT
yes, very amusing. To be fair though Civilians are close to being released on s2 within 2 months of
me tweeting
ALONG with these significant updates (Red Energy Sustenance, Civilian XP system and the RC
Automated Rai
ding system allowing Players to target more than one property (original Civilian concept was to
only target one p
roperty and re-raid)

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:38:19 EDT
well, EPLs will allow Players to instantly teleport to that location .. I think they will be quite
important over time

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:36:54 EDT
exactly, I have been thinking about this for a very long time and don't want to spoil those coastline
views too mu
ch if possible

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:36:08 EDT
wow .. that is really admirable. Could you please send your resume + details to jobs@earth2.io (I
think it is). I wi
ll ask someone to keep an eye out for it so it doesn't get overlooked

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:35:02 EDT
will be an announcement on this soon too

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:34:43 EDT
ok - hopefully these answers have been useful! I went past the spot I said I would need to stop at
but I need to g
et going. Great to chat and thanks again for the support everyone! I know things get delayed but
the team has d
one a great job to include these new elements to the Civilian system and really, it works a lot
better than what w
as previously planned plus it allows us to test mechanics for future core parts of the EcoSim etc.
Keep safe!

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:33:04 EDT
yes, when you reach Lvl 6 you'll stay there .. until we release new lvls

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:32:46 EDT
I think some are harder to get than others, not sure on the exact % though

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:32:28 EDT
no committing to dates but that would be cool

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:32:08 EDT
I am not saying when, but I will reiterate once more, just being transparent, that there was a LOT
of work that ne
eded to be redone and in fact created from scratch from what was designed from the previous
team lead. It was
the main cause of the breakdown with that lead. We're on a good track now and have some cool
info to release
soon! Though I guess some will say 'it's too complicated' .. remember, it will always sound
complicated until you
play it. Playing it will always be easier than reading how it will work

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:29:41 EDT
you have not seen some of the new build designs / placements and yes, we do plan to allow
angles, curves etc
Not super high on priority list but it's a target

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:27:52 EDT
I think I replied to this above already. I would imagine the Mentar hums, yes

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:27:26 EDT
I've not seen any plans for this

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:27:15 EDT

do I really want to ?

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:26:55 EDT
I can't confirm 100% right now. We plan for them to have future purpose, but that also might not
happen the way
you expect, so just make a decision based on what you've officially read via announcements etc

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:25:55 EDT
not planned for

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:25:40 EDT
we haven't released anything official on this yet so would say no for now

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:25:07 EDT
thank you - it's a madhouse behind the scenes but the restructured team is working so well




Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:24:36 EDT
thank you all for being here

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:23:55 EDT
yes, will likely be the 4th - maybe release with some perks to start with




Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:23:21 EDT
please tell me where so I can try and kidnap those wandering

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:22:33 EDT
happy to hear this!

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:22:19 EDT
to be honest we are still working out exactly how to handle various situations. For example, all
water properties
might build under water, especially close to coast lines. There might be cases where they can
advance and buil
d on top of the water. It's not as simple as it might sound, there are many things to consider.

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:20:33 EDT
closer to token launch sorry

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:20:05 EDT
no - please read the way the auto raid system works in the article. We're not just creating a 'click
and forget' ga
me loop ..

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:19:26 EDT
unlimited when you reach 6.

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:18:33 EDT
enter Civilians ..

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:17:51 EDT
always interesting tech being released and this will not change. That's why I wanted to build E2V1
as the found
ation, kind of like an internet explorer for the future. We will get to a stage where new tech can
and will be integr
ated to work with our software (E2V1 etc), we're planning for the future

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:15:45 EDT
please read the Raid Commander Auto Raid System carefully in the article. That explains how the
system will w
ork.

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:15:03 EDT
sound is super important, very good point. I have actually brought this up numerous times with the
team in the p
ast and requested we source people to work on this, however, we've still not found the right devs /
studio to cont
inue working with. There are so many weird operators in the game dev world... I am very aware
about how impo
rtant sound is though and am a big fan so yes, you can expect it at some point. Not overlooked!

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:12:54 EDT
yes, still aiming to get it live on s2 as soon as possible and hopefully there are not too many bugs
so a short tur
n around before it hits prod




Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:11:55 EDT
smart

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:11:42 EDT
this is taking forever as I need to keep scrolling up and finding where I was up to then answer
again and repeat

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:11:20 EDT
there was something I used to do so I could reply, send and stay around the comment I replied to

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:10:50 EDT
I have to scroll back up again and find my place ..

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:10:38 EDT
hey guys - what do I need to do again to stop Discord scrolling down every time I hit send ?

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:09:56 EDT
exactly - that's what I have done with my small account. Often is better to buy T2 tiles for good
raiding locations
if T1 tiles + REU cost too much. Buy T1 if you want better long term E-ther spawn rates

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:08:42 EDT
I had to re-read this .. I read "stress is good for the heart" the first time and I thought - great!

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:07:15 EDT
time from when the Civilian received the automated order .. these Civs are a bit lazy to start with

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:06:41 EDT
ok - I am getting behind .. too many questions. I will try to answer a few more but probably none
under this mes
sage. Has been a very long day

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:06:01 EDT
yes, well aware. It's being worked on just pushing out other updates first

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:04:53 EDT
will be random. Might be benefits for matching factions later but not promising right now

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:04:08 EDT
oh course not. I actually saw some comments regarding this one of people thinking every civilian
would float lol
.. where do these things come from. I just thought it would be cool to demo the Egyptian faction
Ranger, which d
oes fly / float, because it looked cool. Then suddenly every Civilian is floating and cannot walk on
the terrain ..

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:02:55 EDT
we hopefully we can live up to that !

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:02:31 EDT
yes, it was an interesting approach and I think it works well. The other option was the go super
static with settin
g specific properties to raid in a specific order for every property which has its merits, but would
take a lot of tim
e and effort to re-order when say a target property became active again

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:00:59 EDT
yes, we will probably cover some final summary details in the official release (i.e once it's been on
prod and sta
ble)

Shane 05/17/2023 at 05:00:02 EDT
I'm not sure, I will find out though. We're focusing really hard in areas to keep moving forward with
development,
sometimes if something breaks we don't have spare time to fix it. Might be the case

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:59:01 EDT
eh .. those things don't go away. I think it's more or less always been like this and I've learned to
live with it .. alb
eit stressful

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:58:06 EDT
I would say still indicative. We're just building in steps. We still have the same long term goal,
we're just trying to
deliver something earlier for Players to get their hands on

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:57:10 EDT
I think there's a nice light at the end of the tunnel really. You guys see the end product but a lot of
thought and pl
anning goes into these things. A lot of design, meetings, iterations etc

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:56:02 EDT
Players are free to purchase wherever, we don't place tiles for Players so it's out of our hands. It
also makes it
more interesting in my opinion - it's Player influenced

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:54:47 EDT
again - I think that was explained in the RE article. They will wander for now but later you will be
able to transpo
rt them, relocate etc and sell / trade

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:52:06 EDT
then you are oblivious to what we are building. But by all means, continue with your mindset

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:51:24 EDT
that's how I think some see it

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:51:07 EDT
yes 3 for now

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:50:56 EDT
automatically occurs weekly. I think it's explained in the RE article already

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:50:12 EDT
ok - I'll ask someone to upload into a public folder and share

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:49:35 EDT
exactly. And we are getting to that stage .. I guess it's up to people on whether they want to get
more now or try
it later with more competition

Shane 05/17/2023 at 04:47:06 EDT
exactly. And it takes 'words' and 'images' to explain how something works. You can have a whole
page from a g
uidebook explaining one simple feature. Reading it sounds complex but when you use it it's
simple. Remember
how complex Raiding sounded before it was released? We're just releasing info to give Players a
heads up on
what to expect and how it should work. Additionally, we always refine / improve, like we did with
raiding, so no n
eed to get too gloomy Captain Alamicrodev
Shane 04/27/2023 at 15:03:10 EDT
I am still pushing for this year. Ok - past 5am here and I need to keep moving. Nice chatting
everyone and have
a good day ahead!

Shane 04/27/2023 at 15:00:48 EDT
you and me alike! I want a lot of exploring and things to do .. I think most will be quite surprised on
how incredibl
e this will become over time

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:59:43 EDT
definitely !

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:59:08 EDT
haha .. I'd love to but what purpose would it serve? I think you guys need to remember what it was
like before w
e released the clip in December. I'd prefer to use some nice promo video update closer to say a
token launch ..
Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:57:57 EDT
thanks @butt - means a lot hearing that from someone with your background

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:57:04 EDT
well, that is the risk Players take. It's not a madhouse there anymore, so there is enough time to
review the clai
m in detail before deciding to stake. I could flip that back and suggest making the first 10 free
could be abused a
nd then would be very anti-whale .. I mean whales need to spend the time researching and
documenting the res
ource they want, I don't want to make them also put up assurance fees for every property they
own. First 10 fre
e could see people create multiple accounts and abuse it .. there are always many things to
consider. I think it's
quite well balanced at present

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:54:25 EDT
I am pushing for something, but I don't want to say what it is until I'm sure so no hints here sorry.
One thing I wo
uld clarify though, the world that I see some referring to where hundreds of thousands of Players
will be playing
in the exact same space is not something coming tomorrow. I was always clear that we are
building the platfor
m, the web browser so to speak, and over time we will expand concurrent players via some
partnerships we're l
ooking at. Initially, what we want to do is get some access to E2V1 so Players can start doing
things inside of E
2V1 instead of on a browser. These things happen in steps and steps are what we plan to take.
There are alway
s smart ways to approach a problem and millions of people in the same city is not something
we've ever directly
claimed to be able to do and it's not something we want to spend years on developing while our
Players wait to
do something. I'd much rather focus on getting access to E2V1 so every Player can do something
there initially
and slowly work out the networking in the background (we have some interesting ideas on how to
approach thi
s, not going into those now or until I have clear answers from my team)

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:48:33 EDT
yes, I did see something about that and I asked for it to be investigated. The dev that led the HB
development is
on a very important, time critical task right now. I have asked my team to get him to look at it and
awaiting a res
ponse, then we will take it from there. Unfortunately we have so many things moving right now it's
not always so
simple as to stop and fix something immediately if there is a problem

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:46:30 EDT
we have upcoming announcements scheduled which will explain some exciting new details about
resources. It's
very in depth so would be better to wait for the announcement so the details are accurately
explained

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:44:21 EDT
why would I explain anything to someone that doesn't want to be here?

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:43:52 EDT
yes I realise. Which is why the team is checking carefully. But at the end of the day, there will be
rejections

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:43:15 EDT
we have an announcement set to explain this so you'll find out soon

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:41:32 EDT
maybe come back in another 2 years if it bothers you that things take time

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:40:54 EDT
yes, I have had plans to tweet about this and give some examples of claims that will be rejected. I
have the deta
ils sitting there waiting for me to review, but to be honest, I wake up every day and something flies
in from left fie
ld that needs to be handled and there are simply things I never get around to. But yes, will try to
help people in t
his area when possible

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:39:37 EDT
maybe that's because that's what we're doing

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:39:11 EDT
you're welcome! I have been raiding too .. just making sure everything is kind of feeling like it
works well. Even r
aiding during meetings sometimes .. soft, slow pressing sounds on the keyboard .. I wonder if they
noticed lol

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:37:56 EDT
likewise !

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:37:46 EDT
I have an idea but hard to have a date set for anything in software development. Something I think
we've all lear
ned over the past couple of years

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:37:08 EDT
it's all balanced Kissy. We have it under control. Some new claims might be approved while the
others are being
triple checked .. unless you'd prefer us to forego the triple checking and just reject all remaining
original claims?

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:36:04 EDT
well .. there are always many things floating around. We're trying to get as much stuff 'happening'
as possible b
efore we launch the token. Will see how close we get on a couple of things but we're definitely
moving closer.
I'm always pushing for that little bit more as you know ..

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:34:39 EDT
well, the fact you just acknowledge that makes it all worth while. Thanks for saying so. It takes a lot
of work to c
hurn things out while building the big picture in the background while trying to keep people happy!

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:33:24 EDT
I thought I would just take a quick look in on Discord before heading to bed. Nice to see some
positive chatter ar
ound. We're working really hard in the background, so many things happening in parallel!

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:32:20 EDT
that makes two of us!

Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:32:01 EDT
I am going well thank you! Just juggling a million things at once as usual .. head always ready to
explode. Nothi
ng new
Shane 04/27/2023 at 14:30:32 EDT
it’s just a little prep update predominantly for colour blind Players as the fav system will, in part, be
linked to som
e Civilian activities making it quite important. I am sure many Players have worked out their own
little systems b
y now so this update was made taking that into consideration, not breaking unique / individual
systems Players
have already developed while also catering for any colour blind Players in our community. You
guys will find out
more about how the system will work soon enough but basically irrespective of whatever fav icon
system you ha
ve setup, it will fit into the original purpose of multiple fav icons - supporting some key Civilian
activities

Shane 04/19/2023 at 13:45:32 EDT
this is incorrect. Since the beginning of EDC it worked like this : Player owns T1 + EDC property
Player gets ext
ra E-ther from that property (more than standard T1 properties as the EDC gave a bonus amount
of E-ther) Play
er transforms E-ther to Essence The bonus E-ther converted to Essence is calculated then
removed from the E
DC (the BONUS E-ther that was used to convert to Essence) What we have adjusted now is for
the EDC to be r
educed (still based on whatever the bonus E-ther amount is) at the point of E-ther being claimed,
not the transfo
rmation of that E-ther into Essence It is the exact same rate The exact same bonus E-ther is there
If the Player
chooses to transform that E-ther into Essence it all works out exactly the same. In the article we
also clearly stat
ed that if there are changes to transformation rates we will adjust accordingly for EDC owners.
There was actual
ly a benefit for EDC owners who staked their E-ther because they got to dodge the EDC reduction
that would ha
ve been triggered when the E-ther was transformed to Essence. Now if they chose to transform
that E-ther into
Essence the EDC will not drop (as it would have previously) and the Player enjoyed a higher E-
ther spawn rate
without any effect on their EDC balance. I have just typed this out quickly but from what I
understand it is correc
t. I need to wake up in just under 3 hours so apologies I can't stick around the answer further
questions. If believ
es they have experienced an issue, just create a support ticket. I have asked some of my direct
team members
to keep an eye out for EDC related support tickets, but from our side devs are confident
everything looks to be o
perating as per specs. Good day and keep safe

Shane 03/31/2023 at 08:17:10 EDT
umm .. game activity is on fire and we haven't even made the official announcement yet ..
https://app.earth2.io/#
activities Will continue to monitor for stability before announcing but man word spreads fast .. that
activity feed!

Shane 03/30/2023 at 14:29:06 EDT
yes we have made some progress there with a high level approach. Just so many things pushing
forward simult
aneously, it's not forgotten and we will handle it. Sorry guys, is 4:30am and I need to keep moving.
We have a L
OT of things moving internally ..

Shane 03/30/2023 at 14:26:00 EDT
Red Energy will provide smaller Players who are actively Raiding with the opportunity to uniquely
unlock mostly
small amounts of new T1 Land which provide superior spawn rates etc. So although some Players
might find ot
her reasons to take advantage of this opportunity, it’s not really there to make you want more land
– it’s complet
ely optional. Red Energy also introduces the first RBA concept and the reward element will be for
a limited time
only. Red Energy will also have other utility in the future. The base upgrading component of T2 to
T1 land has al
ways been Essence and we did not want to stray away from that plan. So this initial utility of Red
Energy will pro
vide a limited time reward or powering new land purchases into T1 status which is completely
optional for Playe
rs who are active and successfully raiding. If Players don’t want to use their Red Energy in this
way, then I am s
ure those Raiders will find some other use for Red Energy over time. For some concerned about
active Raiders
picking up Red Energy and temporarily being able to purchase new T1 land, it’s not like Raiders
are getting the
option on a silver platter. There is a lot of work and strategy that goes into Raiding successfully
and their activity
and success earned the right. It will also raise awareness for T1 land and many might just check
out the market
place to pick up T1 deals from other Players. So there are many different angles you need to
consider instead o
f looking at things with tunnel vision. In any case, as always, enjoy speculating but please before
drawing concl
usions always wait for the announcement to confirm the full story so you can let yourself form a
better picture!

Shane 03/27/2023 at 23:15:11 EDT
There was a suggestion made a long time ago that if you own land in the UAE you will surely find
Oil. We are h
onouring that suggestion by approving any Oil claim within the UAE. The UAE is a massive area
and will take s
ome time for our software to process every square metre so the approvals will probably be spread
out over a bit
of time. There are still other approvals awaiting final processing, just pointing that out as I know
many may jump
to the conclusion that this is the final batch.

Shane 03/22/2023 at 02:51:25 EDT
**Raiding Issue Update** - we've almost cleared the backlog. Our Raiding Engine is clearing
around 30K items
per minute while calculating various logic + avoiding race conditions dealing the time sensitive
tasks like collecti
ng E-ther etc (so it's not just simple processing of transactions). Though the hiccup today was not
idea, it gave u
s a chance to test the system out a little and it's hitting 30K per minute without breaking too much
of a sweat. Lo
oking on for our version 1 and something we already have plans to build on. Hopefully the backlog
will be cleare
d in 5 minutes or so and we'll be back to real time events (touch wood). Also really cool that our
systems retaine
d all data and could process it in such a way after experiencing an issue. Will still monitor a little
after it's cleared
and confirm when all is looking stable again.

Shane 03/21/2023 at 23:58:38 EDT
yup, it's looking stable so far. I am monitoring but need to leave for a meeting soon. I will keep
monitoring for as
long as possible but seems to be making good progress through the backlog.

Shane 03/21/2023 at 23:41:57 EDT
**Raiding Issue Update** - I found a temporary fix for the problem but there is a massive backlog
of activities to
process and the fix may not hold. At least it is processing some of the backlog for now, however,
Players may sti
ll see ??:??:?? until the activities are fully processed. So please be patient until we give the green
light again. If
your Cydroid appears stuck it might just be waiting for the process to clear so try to leave it in that
state until you
see it's 100% completed whatever you had it doing previously. The devs + devops will be
reviewing this in more
detail when they come online so this is all I could do for now. At least it's clearing some of the
backlog for now.
Will provide another update once more details are confirmed / become available.

Shane 03/21/2023 at 18:48:41 EDT
**Raiding Status Update** We are aware of an issue with Raiding on production at present. There
are no obviou
s signs of issues from a devops perspective (all instances are online and healthy, nothing even
close to maxed
out, all DBs are online and healthy, worker instances are good – I have checked this myself so
there is no obvio
us bottle neck anywhere that may suggest why core parts of Raiding are freezing). Before
resetting anything I w
ould like two of our senior developers to take a deeper dive to hopefully identify where the issue is.
They are bot
h offline right now, sleeping. When they wake up they will see the urgency of the issue and
investigate. I would
hope the systems to be back up and running in the next 8 hours or so. I will update here once
everything is bac
k online and looking stable. **Just sharing for full transparency to keep everyone in the loop** and
to provide an
approximate ETA on resolution + reasoning as to why. If the two senior devs I want to review the
status were onl
ine it would likely have already been fixed by now. Thank you

Shane 03/15/2023 at 04:50:38 EDT
that is ridiculous. I read through that tweet and thought it was really well written and had planned
to retweet but t
hen Twitter suspended your account. I hope they resolve the issue

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:24:21 EDT
don't forget to clear cache etc. Someone will reach out for error logs in case it still occurs and we'll
review to see
whether we missed something

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:21:24 EDT
sorry, I have to get going I have a meeting shortly but just wanted to update that the "Something
went wrong" sh
ould be resolved for the most part. Have a good day everyone!

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:20:50 EDT
gee you're full of good ideas today! lol

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:20:23 EDT
nice one !

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:20:12 EDT
yes I do have an idea but not saying just now. We're pushing forward. I don't want to set
expectations, a lot is h
appening in the background

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:19:39 EDT
not sure if many have noticed this but E-ther comes in at different times for different properties. It's
just the way
we set our mechanics to work and has been working like that for some time now.

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:18:34 EDT
we do have internal names and given the future utility for each Cydroid those names might help
define the utilit
y. However, I do like the idea of involving the community where possible. Will think on this

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:17:22 EDT
great to hear! I guess it's like many things.. some will sit and complain while others will just buckle
down and tak
e advantage. Some people acting like this is the final product for Earth 2 while we're simply
releasing parts in st
ages to give Players more to do

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:16:02 EDT
that's awesome! I'm glad to hear!

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:15:32 EDT
the Cydroid Engineer will help solve this issue when released

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:14:51 EDT
no worries. Fingers crossed and hopefully it fixes the issue for you and others

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:14:25 EDT
the Rejection was accidental. One member from the CAT left a screen open after finishing their
day and it was c
aught up in a process I don't know a lot about. However, on reviewing the claim, it should probably
have been re
jected anyway given the fact it supplied proof of resources for a "completely DIFFERENT country".
As I said, I a
sked the team to be lenient but it's a bit hard to approve a resource when evidence was provided
for a complete
ly different area / country

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:12:07 EDT
I don't have any right now but last I heard was pretty consistently over 300,000 E-ther per day. So
a lot of Player
s are making the best of the opportunity and nailing it. I have been raiding daily as well and found
that once you
complete your initial tests there are a few ways you to can streamline it and actually does not take
very long. I h
ave 214 E-ther sitting waiting to Dispense already from 20 mins or so earlier this morning

Shane 03/14/2023 at 19:06:02 EDT
hey everyone. We pushed an update that should fix most of the "Something went wrong" issues
some Players
were experiencing. It may not fix all, but should fix the majority. We will continue on here.

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:38:45 EST
well, good luck raiding guys! Doctors orders I need to exercise more so I'm off to do some more
walking (and thi
nking). I walked 14kms yesterday lol Pretty stubborn when I put my mind to something. Have a
good weekend!
Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:36:54 EST
we have some options but I don't want to nail anything down. Things change and then people use
that to be dis
appointed




Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:35:19 EST
I'm trying not to give ETAs sorry

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:34:52 EST
yes I did ... but I can't remember what was called which really frustrates me. I have tried to find it a
few times but
don't have the time. I used to make it late 90s / early 2000s. Very addicting ..

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:33:40 EST
we have a fairly long list but we will revisit and push more as we close in on #E2V1 and the
#EcoSim. Even stat
s from raiding will probably blow some of our connections minds .. we're back up to around 30
mins *average en
gagement time per user per day

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:31:25 EST
I think around about 20-35% is getting picked up at present (per day)

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:30:09 EST
thanks very much. I was originally told it was a useless idea.. but I think it works out to be a great
way to kick off
the EcoSim and also give Players something to do in the mean time.

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:22:33 EST
I have noticed some very 'interesting' tactics when Raiding .. I won't disclose them here but I see
some Players
are going full strategic!

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:20:57 EST
if I see a Korean flag or Korean writing .. I just move on ..




Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:20:10 EST
shh .. let's not get into the commercials here

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:19:55 EST
those are the best! I've had a couple too (found some nice spots!)

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:19:16 EST
exactly !! Saved from endless pages of SINGLES !!!

Shane 03/11/2023 at 13:18:58 EST
sorry Predict, those other updates were more critical, especially the auto refocus. Mapbox
demands quite a lot o
f juice from the PC/Phone etc. You should notice this update making it a lot faster not to manage
your Cydroids
and you can still focus on properties when you need to. The property size filter for raiding will
make targeting a l
ot easier now as well, but the search by username would have taken more time. We're keeping
notes though so
the suggestions don't go unnoticed.

Shane 03/11/2023 at 12:57:06 EST
haha - sorry Kissy. Dispensing = sleep !

Shane 03/11/2023 at 12:56:38 EST
I'm not sure whether I'm coming or going half the time. Almost 4am presently

Shane 03/11/2023 at 12:54:56 EST
will find out soon enough ! And thank you !

Shane 03/11/2023 at 12:54:16 EST
I like what I see consider it's version 1. We're still monitoring closely and identifying potential
bottlenecks but it's
rolled outa lot smoother than even I expected

Shane 03/11/2023 at 12:52:45 EST
the containers are swapping over due to a new deployment. Just refresh to connect to a new
container

Shane 03/10/2023 at 16:43:10 EST
who needs ChatGPT


 We've paid good money for this
Shane 03/10/2023 at 16:42:28 EST
please, allow the entertainment to continue

Shane 03/10/2023 at 14:10:58 EST
@armagelypse as @bamboamadeus pointed out. At least that is the high level. There will be a lot
of game play
elements incoming to Earth 2, this is just the start. If it's too time consuming for some I understand
and they hav
e the option to wait for future features to be released. You see Earth 2 is big and it's incredibly
challenging to roll
out a Metaverse in stages like this, but at the end of the day, this is what we have committed to
and different pe
ople will find interest at different stages

Shane 03/10/2023 at 14:08:32 EST
I understand, a lot of Earth 2 is speculation and some win big on that. So I understand why Players
would do it
and as I mentioned .. some just want that legendary .. or more of them. Or that rare. And that's
what they want ..
simple. I know if there was an open market right now I would probably buy a Cydroid because I
didn't have it or
wanted it before I even knew it's hidden utilities. I just mentioned in the article that some may wish
to consider th
is before buying

Shane oh yes, I am very familiar with how this works hence the rarity system. We have a lot of
utility planned
Shane 03/10/2023 at 14:06:32 EST
having said that, even the common / uncommon will have purpose and use. They all will. And all
will be achieva
ble via the EcoSim at this point (just some will be more difficult to build based on research,
resources etc). SO t
his is a chance to pick them up now with an initial utility to raid unstable E-ther. Anyway, that's it
for now

Shane 03/10/2023 at 14:04:37 EST
oh yes, I am very familiar with how this works hence the rarity system. We have a lot of utility
planned for varyin
g Cydroids, and the rarer the Cydroid the more special their hidden utilities will be (obviously set
for Player inter
pretation to some extent on what they want/ need the most). This is one of the reasons I
specifically stated best
not to sell them yet.. the buyer or the seller might be getting a good deal but they won't know until
we release th
ose details and we're not ready to release those details (hence the suggestion not to sell them and
the fact we'r
e not supporting sales via tether to property).

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:50:56 EST
I have to get back to work, covering too many things right now. Just popped in briefly. Thanks
everyone

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:50:35 EST
great to hear !

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:50:25 EST
we will supply a direct means of selling P2P later. For now we suggested not to do it but I realise
some will go a
gainst that suggestion. I can't advise more than this

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:49:39 EST
I haven't had a chance to look, will check it out later
Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:48:54 EST
well, I specifically wrote something about doing that in the last announcement. We are not
showing those details
on Marketplace listed properties for a reason. But if Players circumvent those warnings, it is a
secondary market
controlled by Players .. I can't stop people paying what they want for something at the time. Think
of a game yo
u like playing and if another Player wanted to sell an item you desired. Some would consider the
resell value an
d others just want it .. I can't control that


 But we have it pencilled in internally for a couple of spots
Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:46:37 EST
you know I'm not answering that

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:46:04 EST
yes most likely, or civilians. We need to regroup next week and check where each feature is at (so
long as no ot
her serious issues arise )

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:45:22 EST
yes, that's another can of worms that looks simple at first glance, but I get the joke

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:44:54 EST
thanks very much @Virtual Tycoon ! We had our ups and down but got there and will continue on
as best we ca
n! A few little updates I am hoping to push out today, in QA, then we may even officially announce
over the week
end!

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:43:56 EST
we have a few other features to release before P2P contracts. Please remember this Raiding
release was more
or less just a test for things to come, we had to start somewhere and this was our start. I realise
Players will be i
tching for other releases and we're committed to making those, but it takes time. The P2P
contracts is actually a
massive update. Sounds simple but there are so many things to consider once you start diving in ..
our confluen
ce game design DDD for that feature alone is absolutely massive ..

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:42:02 EST
I know - it's insane !

Shane 03/10/2023 at 13:41:33 EST
yes it's been recorded and we do plan to add this (I think I referred to it in an article or something).
But either wa
y, it will be added at a later date, we just don't want to promote Players doing this just yet




Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:59:38 EST
perhaps ..

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:58:42 EST
ok 1pm. Time to try and get some sleep lol

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:57:36 EST
thank you - the team has done an amazing job

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:57:21 EST
glad to hear and there's probably a lot more reasons coming !

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:56:59 EST
that's because everyone shows the best Cydroids they build! As I mentioned in the video on
twitter, you'll see th
ose more often than the common Cydroids as nobody wants to say "hey look at my common
Cydroid!". Anyway,
all will have varying utility in the future and be important for various reasons. It might be good to
own a lot of co
mmons ..
Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:54:55 EST
yes, I noticed that. We may look at an option to disable


Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:54:26 EST
we are making good progress on E2V1 but not letting details out sorry

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:53:23 EST
we disabled it for now for a few reasons I will keep confidential

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:52:46 EST
100% ! Glad you can see that! Once the EcoSim starts this system will be running vehicles and
transporters mo
ving things like building blocks, long distance fast relocation of Cydroids, Jewels.. you name it

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:51:43 EST
as best we can. We are monitoring for any super abnormal behaviour and we have implemented
some systems
that restrict out of normal behaviour

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:50:38 EST
thank you. Slowly but surely! We should be able to build on this and make things quite interesting
as we push fo
rward toward other key features

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:48:11 EST
smoother than I expected so far .. touch wood !

Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:47:24 EST
Unfortunately @predict7074 is active. I was hoping I might be lucky and catch a window of
opportunity when sh
e was busy building and raiding .. but alas was not to be. At least there is no chance of retaliation
.. for now

Predict_Fail_Damn.png
13.69KB




Shane 03/09/2023 at 21:42:56 EST
depending on some future Cydroid utility .. you guys may not want to mess with @predict7074

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:53:15 EST
anyway, sorry I need to get going. Have not slept too good this week and I have a busy day ahead.
Thanks for t
he support everyone and we'll keep pushing hard!

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:52:31 EST
all equally rare for now

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:52:09 EST
so I mean ignoring the opportunity to convert into Essence, that could also synthesise 28 civilians
later .. or buil
d more Cydroids. The list will continue to expand as will the strategies

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:50:49 EST
I don't really understand your question and I'm not too up to date on the Jewels, so I can't answer
sorry

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:50:14 EST
that's a mixture of building Cydroids and powering. So we're going to split those up into spent and
staked later

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:49:16 EST
not that I'm aware of. Too busy raiding others lol

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:48:46 EST
remember, we're dealing with massive data here. Over 100 million tiles .. this stuff is not easy to
get working at t
his kind of scale. I'm super proud of team, we're improving and taking decent steps in the right
direction
Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:47:27 EST
yeah I have it on and watching

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:47:13 EST

that is a stat Cydroid Management and Civilians will unlock

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:46:39 EST
indefinitely for now

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:46:09 EST
well remember it's only version 1. Just a start. We'll improve as we simultaneously build out other
features arou
nd this engine

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:45:27 EST
no - that is added to your balance once you dispense

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:45:04 EST
meanwhile there's tens of thousands raids taking place by those who have been following along.
But yes, we ar
e working on some tutorial videos so maybe check those out when they get released.

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:43:01 EST
that's part of the strategy, to work that out. You can find successful raids in the activity list

Shane 03/09/2023 at 17:41:37 EST
@billpal it's not not going to change, it's behaving correctly. There are certain situations which
your Cydroids ca
n return quickly and others where they will wait. Please stop pushing this as a bug, it's how the
game mechanic
works. Some Cydroids could scan the property for over 24 hours in some cases. It's a game..
that's the risk of g
etting stuck scanning the property if someone else has just raided it, or E-ther is there but not
unstable yet and t
he Player claims. There are many mechanisms operating the background so please refrain from
calling intende
d game mechanics a bug. I had already explained this to you above and can't make it any clearer
than this.

Shane 03/09/2023 at 16:13:59 EST
this is normal and working as intended. Cydroids will arrive at a target property and then scan for
unstable E-the
r. If they don't find any they will continue to scan until they either find some or run out of charge or
a full cycle co
mpletes. Lesson - try to avoid raiding active properties.

Shane 03/09/2023 at 14:40:11 EST
gee .. Players are just watching everything. Activity feed is going off with Raids. Should be fixed
now (I gave the
devs some breathing room they didn't need in the end!). We will continue to monitor. Good luck
raiding !

Shane 03/09/2023 at 14:23:36 EST
Update : I'm told we're still 2-3 hours away from applying a potential fix for listing target properties
for raiding. Ju
st being transparent so everyone has an idea on time frames. There is no guarantee the update
will work but it
will be applied in approximately 2-3 hrs.

Shane 03/09/2023 at 10:14:13 EST
**Update :** We have isolated the problem but it may take a few hours to resolve. We considered
pausing the b
uilding process but that may create other issues and would also mean Players would miss out on
day 1 builds c
ompleting. So just sit tight as the builds complete and rarities are revealed and let the team fix the
problem. The
y're actively working on it right now and will have it resolved as soon as possible, however, this
may take a num
ber of hours.

Shane 03/09/2023 at 09:41:30 EST
we're already on it. Very odd bug as works fine on #stage2 (pre-production). Team is actively on it
right now wor
king out what went wrong and how to fix it

Shane 03/08/2023 at 18:27:57 EST
no big animated reveal sorry Pacey. I like that type of thing also but we have a lot to build this year
so have to li
mit some of the bells and whistles

Shane 03/08/2023 at 18:27:19 EST
there are some active restrictions on Insights. These are intentional. Expect an update later but for
now there ar
e limitations there for a couple of reasons.

Shane 03/08/2023 at 18:16:03 EST
most of the reindexing should be completed now. Just refresh the screen or load another page
then back again
and you should see the +

Shane 03/08/2023 at 18:06:26 EST
exactly - they are there, we just need to reindex. The main focus was to get the system back
online. Now that's
done, please give us time to iron out some other parts. Nothing is lost, you'll actually see you can't
build more o
n those properties because they do in fact already have Cydroids building so you'll see an error
message

Shane 03/08/2023 at 18:04:25 EST
they are there, just not visible right now. We need to reindex as elasticsearch (or opensearch) is
not our main d
ata source

Shane 03/08/2023 at 17:56:01 EST
should be back online

Shane 03/08/2023 at 15:35:56 EST
AWS keeps dodging ..

Shane 03/08/2023 at 15:34:11 EST
just being transparent here so anyone interested is aware, one of the services we have running on
AWS (elastic
search) has hung / crashed. When the cluster status hangs we are at the mercy of AWS to restore
it, there is no
thing we can do. So it’s not an issue with our engine, all the systems are working fine with regards
to Cydroids b
uilding etc. it’s just things like the raiding UI and profiles that will have issues loading until AWS
restores it for us.
Once it is restored, things should return back to normal and our devops team will investigate what
went wrong a
nd see if there is anything we can do to avoid it happening again. It was running very smoothly
there but with so
ftware there is always something that comes from left field! Thanks for your patience and
understanding.

Shane 03/08/2023 at 12:35:38 EST
man word travels fast.. there is a 4x jump in active logins the past 15 mins literally seconds after
the first part wa
s deployed. It's not finished deploying yet & may take some time! Again, we can't confirm when it
will be stable a
nd live so hang in there. 4x jump in active logins 15 mins after the Raid button appeared!

Shane 03/06/2023 at 14:47:51 EST
it would most likely have been flagged for rejection as a weaker claim, but luckily for you another
stronger claim
captured it in it's approval net. This means our system is working, where even if a weaker claim is
made, if it's lu
cky enough to be caught under the umbrella of a stronger claims radius, it will be approved. This
is why I wante
d to process rejections at the end once all approvals are processed.

Shane 03/04/2023 at 08:05:48 EST
yes I thought this would help with Players launching multiple raids in the same area so they can
identify which p
roperties they're already actively targeting and don't double raid (or maybe they want to double /
triple raid if the
y've found a good target). This indicator will become even more important once CD Jewel Slotting
comes into pl
ay and increases CD Raid range. There were quite a few other updates / fixes pushed as well
which are less no
ticeable and a few more incoming but getting much closer now.

Shane 02/24/2023 at 10:54:16 EST
yeah, because you own the Earth 2 website and use google analytics right? I guess your external
monitoring to
ol trumps an internal integration of google analytics. Left unchecked I suppose you plan to run with
this in Discor
d for a few weeks, like you seem to do with everything else, trying to negatively inject it into any
conversation po
ssible? I mean look at where you’re going with it right now. How many times have you tried to
bring it up just rec
ently in this chat? It’s almost comical if it weren’t so sinister. Of course, I mixed up visits with
users. We have 14
0K visits. Ok, thanks for pointing that out and making sure everyone knows. I guess this
screenshot from Googl
e Analytics would disagree with you (pointing out it's only displaying top 10 countries, just in case
you decide onl
y 10 countries access Earth 2). Kind of looks like we’re a platform ready to explode once as we
gradually introd
uce more things to do. But how would I know, I get users and visits mixed up. Anyway, I actually
find it quite exci
ting to think about. Apologies to drop in just to post this comment, but I just happened to see this
person carryin
g on, took a look at their chat history and figured if I don't comment this person will be pushing it
for weeks alon
g with anything else s/he can say to bring people down. For those supporting the project, I’m sorry
you have to
put up with reading this type of thing day in and day out. I can understand why many don’t want to
converse in
Discord or even open it. We will keep working diligently and slowly get there. I am off to bed, it's
late and I need
to wake up again soon. Take care everyone, thanks to the volunteers who are helping test on
stage2, we really
appreciate it. We’ll be pushing hard to release Raiding as soon as devs and QA approve.

stats_.png
54.27KB

Shane 01/02/2023 at 15:21:02 EST
ahh ok cool. I realise you're a sceptic about Earth 2, but I think at least you voice your opinions
respectfully eno
ugh (from what I've seen) and it's nice you take the good and bad from both sides. Not sure if you
are someone
hiding behind a new handle though ..

Shane 01/02/2023 at 15:19:57 EST
lol it needs to be explained property and I don't have the notes with me. What I will say is that
COPY is just one
part of Brilliants, there will be other perks as well so I don't want people thinking that is all Brilliants
will do.

Shane 01/02/2023 at 15:17:41 EST
I'm glad you feel validated. Enjoy you time in the sun

Shane 01/02/2023 at 15:15:27 EST
you're a very sad individual Archivium or whatever your real name is, obviously easy to hide
behind handles and
criticise like a true keyboard warrior. I hope you find happiness one day and that you can put some
of your time
and effort into doing something constructive and get away from being so obsessed with Earth 2
and me

Shane 01/02/2023 at 15:13:52 EST
exactly. But that does not fit their narrative. I also heard you were banned from their Discord or is
that incorrect?

Shane 01/02/2023 at 15:10:05 EST
and I think this basically summarises their community perfectly .. so @paceys asked me if I could
do a quick rec
ording of Minsk. I quickly did that for him (took a few mins) and then shared it. But here we have
the all knowing
"Ghost" catching us out, claiming the video was pre-recorded and in those few mins using our
incredible skills,
we overlayed the Cydroid and rotated! I love our talented video editors who can do this stuff for me
in seconds
...

20230103CallumDiscord_G.png
443.74KB

Shane 01/02/2023 at 15:07:42 EST
I mean yeah .. because it's all just harmless criticism, right @archivium ?
20221211CallumDiscord_C.jpg
51.72KB

Shane 01/02/2023 at 15:06:33 EST
I just wanted to bring this type of thing to people’s attention as it seems we’re going to see some
of your group d
oubling down, nit-picking and even lying, to make yourselves right. And many are already here on
our Discord. I
mean look here, you have one of the main “cabal” Earth 2 haters, the "Cabal Auditor" Achivium
herself, hiding in
side the Earth 2 community complaining that Arya was “jumping to conclusions”. To those who
were hating on u
s but at least admitted the progress in the E2V1 is looking good – thank you for being the bigger
person. It takes
a lot to do that.
Archivium.png
70.3KB

20221219_G.png
746.66KB

Shane 01/02/2023 at 15:04:40 EST
Hey e2.me/stagflation .. or "Shadow Cabal Auditor" Archivium. Of course, no game play for you in
the E2V1 vid
eo because you need to see a HUD? Right? And a HUD is super difficult to make .. damn .. wish
we created a
HUD so you don't have to spend countless more weeks trying to derail Earth 2. Yes my team does
monitor and r
ecord various activity for various reasons. Maybe if your group didn’t spend so much time
spreading misinforma
tion we wouldn’t need to ‘tune in’. Trust me, I have other things I’d prefer to be doing than getting
briefed on wha
t you guys are trying to peddle. And your group, including you, come directly into our community
under different
aliases to cause issues. This is far beyond normal criticism or feedback, especially coming from a
group that ha
s one interest, which is to see Earth 2 fail. But imagine spending so much time on the Discord
server of a produ
ct you hope, wish and pray fails. It makes you wonder why someone would even want to put in this
much effort,
almost daily, to do all they can to hinder a project that is quite obviously actively building a product
their commu
nity like and that product is still clearly a work in progress, just over 2 years in the making when it
takes 7 to so
metimes even 10 years to build and release a game. Do you have to like Earth 2? Nope, and
that’s fine. But wh
y spend so much time and effort throwing shade on it, hoping it fails and now, because our
community liked the
progress they say in the E2V1 video, your group start going to extremes, fabricating (blatantly
lying) about or mi
sconstruing anything to double down on the hate to MAKE it suit your agenda. How sad and
twisted some peopl
e can be.
20230103CallumDiscord_E.png
398.13KB

Shane 01/02/2023 at 14:56:20 EST
yeah .. because an EcoSim can't have anything flying .. right? Next we would be criticised for not
having someth
ing that can fly ..
20230103CallumDiscord_D.png
733.13KB
Shane 01/02/2023 at 14:55:38 EST
and you can see how they spend their time, misleading one another, then these comments spew
out into YouTu
be and Social Media .. starting from places like this

20230103CallumDiscord_C.png
458.81KB
​#
Shane
general
01/02/2023 at 14:54:53 EST
"yes" they're
Page 2 of 5intentionally blurry because I was trying to "hide the low quality .." Go right ahead and
ignore the fact it's a GIF

Generated with Discrub

20230103CallumDiscord_B.png
171.76KB




Shane
01/02/2023 at 14:54:01 EST
why are you here scorge? To act as if you have an innocent interest in Earth 2 yet you’re simply
looking for information you can screenshot, run back to your little cave and intentionally
misconstrue details to your group of E
arth 2 haters? I’m curious, is it satisfying? Why the obsession from you guys? Your group labelled
and publicised us a scam, claimed we can’t build E2V1, but now that we’ve shown we are
committed to building this why do
uble down and push even more hatred? What bothers you so much that you and your group need
to spend a good part of their every day spreading misinformation and doing everything they can to
try and cause issues for
Earth 2 or for anyone who does believe in the project? Does it bump up your egos and make you
feel as if your superior? Is your soul and the ones you consort with, really that putrid? Your group
often claims they are trying
to prevent people from getting involved to "protect" them, yet you're happy to do all you can to
harm the hundreds of thousands of people who do believe in the project. I was sent these
screenshots moments ago of what yo
u decided to take back to your group. Screenshots of me simply sharing a LOW QUALITY GIF
during the Earth 2 GIFMAS celebration, yet you saw it as an opportunity to bend it into your own
distorted views to suit your ow
n narrative of what you WANT Earth 2 to be. Me showing a converted GIF is suddenly related to
client based servers? How suitable. Yes, I have team members who document everything and
provide me with reports. There
are a couple of reasons we have been doing this, but one reason is to identify any constructive
criticism, and while there is a little, for the most part it's just a cesspool of hatred toward Earth 2
and myself personally. And wh
en did I say it’s not even that good? Plus you think I should buy a better rig to showcase E2V1?
Your group often accuses the Earth 2 team of using super computers that don’t exist yet to
showcase E2V1, yet now you’re qu
estioning why I don’t buy a better rig? I’m not sure you guys realise how often you contradict your
own criticism, you do it very often, sometimes within hours, other times within days, weeks
whatever – yet you’re quick to ju
mp on any word I say or write. It’s kind of like a competition to see who can distort or misconstrue
whatever I say the most within your group, right? So now because I spontaneously recorded and
converted a quick screen r
ecording into a low quality GIF, that’s now given you serious doubts? Wow .. ignorance truly is
bliss.




20230103CallumDiscord_A.jpg
419.03KB




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:58:29 EST
not sure if my answer was not clear, but that is definitely not what I meant. It's very clearly stated
in the E2V1 video and I've always said that things inside of E2V1 / Earth 2 will mostly be by
products of the EcoSim. I'm talki
ng about internal spaces, like holodecks and maybe other areas where we might bend rules (and
even then I noted maybe).




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:55:27 EST
btw - thanks for your message Zack. Liz shared that with me. Was very touching and very big of
you to share those thoughts. Thank you




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:54:12 EST
ahh it blended in. I will answer it next time. I also need to refresh my memory and I don't want to
say something that is inaccurate or incorrect




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:52:44 EST
the CAT is being replaced early 2023 from what I am told and there was a holiday break.




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:51:01 EST
lol - it's almost 4am here. I better get going anyway. Liz and Kieran gave a general heads up that
GIFmas was starting and so I thought it might be nice to add a GIF of that flyover with everyone.
Hope you all have a good d
ay and nice catching up. Some very funny GIFs shared, I had some good laughs.




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:48:59 EST
I can't give a time




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:48:38 EST
I'm sure we will have things like that over time. We're still building the foundations




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:47:52 EST
we have not released any information about that .. yet .. and I can't answer right now




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:47:29 EST
of course would be great, but I think we need to be ready for that sudden growth. Setting the
foundation and release for E2V1 will be instrumental in making this happen (imo)




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:46:33 EST
good question, and I'm sorry I can't give an answer. Best I could say for now is internally, maybe
not (maybe) - external areas (i.e inside E2V1) maybe yes.




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:45:12 EST
I actually loved SG-1 as well .. back in the day lol




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:44:42 EST
not sure how I am ignoring you? I did not see a comment from you




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:43:54 EST
I am a big fan of Egyptian history and mythology. I guess we had to start somewhere .. and there
will be more released over time. We have another 4-5 on the table internally




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:42:20 EST
​it's still going




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:42:10 EST
you can and will have mixed civilians from different factions, especially at the beginning




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:41:15 EST
I am not sure, we want to continue with benefits where possible, they already have a lot with
higher E-ther and Jewel yield (and other things). But we also don't want to create too much of a
barrier for new players. It's hard f
or me to promise anything here and now, especially when we're re-working so much of the mess
that was left with us from the previous team.




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:37:50 EST
hey - hope you're enjoying the new year thus far !




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:37:24 EST
very cool




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:36:39 EST
I played WarCraft 3 (and 1 and 2) a lot. I know moonglade. We was a decent Australian WC3
player. I never got into WoW as I knew I would get addicted and my wife didn't like me gaming too
much .. so had to settle or sho
rter games I could get in and out of quickly lol




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:32:03 EST
haha! I loved playing StarCraft. I have not played for 15 years now but I found a silly video the
other day that I must have put together late 2006. I was a Zerg Player for but some reason I only
used clips of me joking playing
Terran or Protoss in the video. I think I was just fooling around and randomly made a video at the
time.




shane_starcraft.gif
22.41MB




shane_starcraft2.gif
8.23MB




Shane

01/02/2023 at 12:19:28 EST
sorry, that's not it




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:18:17 EST
I haven't seen anything close




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:17:51 EST
thank you - and to you!




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:16:46 EST
I have an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2080 Super on this machine .. already outdated but runs it very
well (and E2V1 is not fully optimised .. no where near it. Still very much a WIP)




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:15:25 EST
sure




Shane
01/02/2023 at 12:10:19 EST
Ok last one. I have a pretty outdated version on my home PC. I just thought it might be fun to
record a flyover of the megacity to share for GIFmas (it's the first time I've used this NVIDIA
broadcast, but seems to work well).
Was just a random thing. The team have been working on a number of various improvements that
will be evident in the next showcasing of E2V1. Anyway, here is a pristine glimpse at Minsk in the
outdated version I have o
n my home PC.




Minsk_Pristine_E2V1_1.gif
58.12MB




Minsk_Pristine_E2V1_2.gif
51.95MB




Shane
01/02/2023 at 11:42:20 EST
well... obviously it's just a collision for now (we have not created any special effects yet for
collisions) but yes, you stop pretty fast in your tracks As I said, don't get on board if I'm flying!
tease_gif_sorry_guys2_crash.gif
51.5MB




Shane
01/02/2023 at 11:27:38 EST
I heard GIFMAS was taking place. Sorry for the tease! Just recorded this and trying to work out
how to convert into a GIF. P.S Don't ever get on a plane if I'm flying




tease_gif_sorry_guys.gif
​46.64MB




Shane
12/22/2022 at 23:16:50 EST
it does not seem to be human error. I have just received a report from my team that an IGN MOD
has deleted every positive comment on the post and left up mostly negative comments. Anyone
who wrote a positive
comment has had their comments deleted (over 80 I am told) and anyone who responds to a
comment disagreeing to claims Earth 2 is a scam is also having their comments deleted. This just
goes to show how much dama
ge has been caused by the misleading videos posted about Earth 2 in the past and the group
behind it. On the one hand, the scamtubers and their followers say to just work hard and prove
them wrong, so we have been doi
ng that and had planned on continuing on with that approach, but on the other hand, when we do
release a video showing progress, their group doubles down and reports us as a scam to do
things like this – reporting any p
ositive comment so it gets removed and perpetuate misleading information. Claiming any positive
comment is suspicious or fake. I think this has gone beyond critique and has turned into a group
doing anything in their powe
r and doing all they can to make sure Earth 2 fails. From what I understand, IGN reached out to us
to post the video because it tweaked their interest (I was not aware of this, was between the
company we use for PR). This
was purely organic, I mean it’s not every day you get companies like IGN positing your game
trailer on their website and it hitting the most popular video on their website. But having said that,
we may need to question IGN
about why their MOD team is only allowing negative comments and deleting any positive comment
and I may need to ask if they could take the video down if that is how they plan to moderate the
comments as an entity that
is supposed to be neutral. It's just ridiculous that we should even be wasting time on this. They
want to see whether we can build Earth 2 yet they do everything in their power to make that as
difficult as possible, like it's not
already challenging enough. I am sure many will find satisfaction in the fact the IGN mod deleted
comments from our community, but how about taking a moment to consider if the shoe was on the
other foot and a project yo
u supported was featured on IGN only to have a group who dislike your project have every
positive comment taken down? I suppose that will fall on deaf ears, too much red and blind hatred
already there - and for what
reason I would ask? This is beyond just dislike of a project, this is going above and beyond to
derail it. We have full time staff and countless people who are interested in this project and want to
see it succeed, yet any progr
ess or coverage we get is met by a group that simply want to see us fail and it’s obvious from
today’s activity that this group will go to all means in order to see that happen.




Shane
12/16/2022 at 19:35:12 EST
thanks for the all the amazing messages of support guys. I am still have a few things to do before I
can get a little rest, but the messages truly have been overwhelming .. thank you for your belief in
Earth 2 and our team




Shane
12/16/2022 at 19:34:14 EST
YouTube automatically suggest games. It was MSFS2020 first then changed to Star Citizen for
some reason. Sorry to disappoint you and thanks for the compliment




Shane
12/16/2022 at 02:28:31 EST
yeah .. imagine ..




Shane
12/14/2022 at 09:18:20 EST
I mean that's possible but doesn't it take away from the excitement in watching it together without
knowing what is coming next? And then if I streamed it then the quality would look bad, also taking
away from the experience




Shane
12/14/2022 at 09:17:04 EST
I can still have the video posted on time, I just think people need a bit of warning so if I upload the
video and set the premier for say 48 hrs or so, then everyone has the precise day and time there,
all locked in and cannot ch
ange. Anyway, we'll see




Shane
12/14/2022 at 09:15:35 EST
the video you guys will see is not really comparable to the one we would have released on Nov 30
if that's any consolation




Shane
12/14/2022 at 09:14:37 EST
I take this type of thing very seriously and I'm just going to stop giving dates. It's not really helping
anyone. I work myself into the ground to ensure the dates are met or as close to, and people are
disappointed, which I can 1
00% understand and I apologise for. It just sucks as we actually had it ready to go on time and
then that CopyRight claim came up.




Shane
12/14/2022 at 09:12:24 EST
yes I will. Last few hours we've been working on editing in the new audio for that part. It's not what
I wanted but I also don't want this to be delayed further so. There are still parts of the music I
wanted in there (or should be)
, it's just one part seems to be what YouTube is catching .. even though it's the same song. It just
happens to be at one of the climaxes which sucks ..




Shane
12/14/2022 at 09:10:45 EST
we also didn't plan for this. There is a little work party planned for tomorrow afternoon and I've had
to tell them I probably won't make it. So this certainly wasn't planned for. These things just come
up and what else can you
do except for deal with them.




Shane
12/14/2022 at 09:06:55 EST
I did not lie. It was ready and I literally provided the info on the additional parts added at the start
of my tweet. We delayed to edit in the audio nicely and then we also revamped the entire video so
it was more informative. T
he video ready end of November was a more raw version. You'll see what I mean when you see
the video, then perhaps you will understand. Also, we're not professional YouTubers. We prepped
the video within the timefra
me, I have worked constant 18hr shifts over the past 2 weeks + a 26hr shift 2 days ago to fit in the
extra time needed to ensure the video was more polished. We have never received a Copyright
Claim that literally blocked t
he audience before. Even so, I don't want to make everyone wait weeks or even a month for this
video, so Plan b is to now remove the part of the video being flagged for the Copyright Claim, so
we are removing the music
and editing in other music so you guys don't need to wait. I realise you're frustrated, but I am sitting
here after sleeping 4 hours, waking up at 6am and it's now midnight and I still have hours of work
ahead to ensure this gets
done. I believe we need to give people enough notice of the exact time the video will premier so
people have a chance to lock in that time to view it, so I will try to get the video up (so long as
there are no more Copyright Cl
aims in the new version!) and then schedule an exact time for the video so everyone has an exact
time locked in to plan ahead. I realise I could drop the video anywhere, but I think it's going to be
memorable to watch it tog
ether.




was_ready.png
22.16KB




Shane
12/10/2022 at 20:30:25 EST
I answered your question - not sure what else you want me to do ? You want me to state there
has never been one single data breach ever, and then catch me if there has ? I don't know of any




Shane
12/10/2022 at 20:29:20 EST
anyway, yes I am working today, busy day. My daughter is waiting for me to take her out to the pet
store quickly though so I'll be doing that now. Just checked the Discord before I leave




Shane
12/10/2022 at 20:27:47 EST
oh man .. Callum is all over the place in that video. Eyes shifting in every direction and too many
sudden edits .. it's actually a bit concerning
​Shane
 12/10/2022 at 20:26:30 EST
 see above comment




Shane
12/10/2022 at 20:26:13 EST
in the early days there were always claims about such things, but we never found anything
substantial and we never saw any massive account breaches. I am not sure if there are some
cases due to phishing scams, you ne
ed to remember that a fake Earth 2 app hit the top 10 on the App Store before Apple finally
listened to our legal team to shut it down, it received tens of thousands of downloads. And then
there were also copy cat websites t
hat probably compared data and compromised some accounts. But I am not aware of any
widespread account breaches even with that history in mind




Shane
12/10/2022 at 20:20:50 EST
but did he really? Or is it just another project he has tried with all his might to destroy? I was
curious about what you wrote and I saw on Callum's YT video list he released a video 5 months
ago claiming the "Death of Dream
World", and it looks like that's just after DreamWorld released a video 6 months ago showing
progress on their game. So it seems he bags on these projects, but if they are legitimate and
actually make good progress, he do
ubles down and spreads more misinformation to hide the fact he was wrong to his followers and
anyone else who watches his videos. I mean I just watched their latest video, I know nothing about
DreamWorld but to me it lo
oks playable and looks a whole lot better than anything Callum has ever showcased .. and wasn't
he supposed to be making Nightmare World to show these other DreamWorld devs how it's done
by a real game dev? I mea
n to me as a gamer it looks kinda cool, especially for the younger generation - why continue to
label it a scam if they ended up carrying through with their promise? I mean clearly it looks better
than anything Callum has ever
showcased .. so looks like they literally beat him at his own game.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AWSoDd7wm-I




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:10:02 EST
our team fixes bugs as often as possible so I'm sure if it's something widespread and serious it will
be high up the list of things to fix




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:08:48 EST
anyway, it's 8am Sunday morning and I have a fun day of work ahead of me! Nice catching up and
hope you all have a great day ahead!




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:08:21 EST
yeah focused a lot on that .. and maybe a few other things




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:07:33 EST
oh you picked that up It is a new name for Droids - short for Cybernetic Droid




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:06:42 EST
so true - and here we are getting hated on for building our own tech from scratch to performantly
stream a 1:1 scale geographical replica of the planet Earth, with a tiny dev team when compared
to some of these other proje
cts




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:04:42 EST
I would like to this year!!




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:02:15 EST
it's on the table, just so many things to develop




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:01:51 EST
we have Raiding coming .. and I am very sorry to hear that news. My condolences, it's hard to lose
a pet. Our family dog died in my arms a few years ago and it still brings back tears. I hope your
mother is able to see her ca
ncer into remission as well .. hang in there




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:00:40 EST
we will release more details on what "COPY" means in the near future. But it will be one part of
other interesting perks I want to add to Brilliants over time




Shane
12/10/2022 at 17:00:00 EST
no I don't see them like that




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:59:45 EST
haha




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:59:34 EST
I told you I'm trying to do you guys a favour !




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:58:55 EST
oh yes, we will process one round before CyDroids launch




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:58:08 EST
I am focused on getting Raiding live for now and the other short term things like releasing the
video etc




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:57:50 EST
probably not initially. The owner will have the choice of giving them access to slot the owner's
Jewels or not. This will be a super complicated system so maybe wait until we release all the
details
​Shane
 12/10/2022 at 16:56:48 EST
 I am not sure I trust you! I am trying to do you guys a favour!




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:55:49 EST
thank you for pointing it out, yet again, to the n00bs




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:54:53 EST
not really - not when you have someone publicly stating (lying) there was a recent data breach and
they hacked your website




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:53:51 EST
@butt I'll let you answer that one. Does not matter how many times people respond they just fall
back.




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:52:01 EST
even if that were true, wasn't this supposed to have happened a few weeks ago? Funny how
people get caught in their own lies




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:51:14 EST
we're not sure because we never found any data leaked. But better to move away from things with
security issues so we did




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:50:44 EST
no - nothing changed there. We investigated as soon as the public claims were made. I think
some people enjoy a little bit of deception on here




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:50:02 EST
anything to derail and now they really are scraping the bottom of the barrel. At least it used to be
some what comical ..


Shane we have security / penetration hackers that work for security on banks ..




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:48:59 EST
yet he beat all of them! Maybe he should get a job protecting the biggest financial institutions in
the world against hackers ?!




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:48:05 EST
we have security / penetration hackers that work for security on banks ..




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:47:25 EST
that's why he couldn't login .. but hey, let's come up with "Earth 2 miraculously fixed it before I
could turn that screen recorder on!"




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:46:43 EST
correct - unless he came across some leaked data from a phishing website. Not sure if many
recall, but one of the main phishing cases was a fake app launching on the App Store that went to
like number 5 or something in
the USA which pretended to be Earth 2. Our legal team took it down as quickly as possible, but
tens of thousands signed up to it .. probably with their Earth 2 login creds but we're not sure. Apple
would not share the data




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:44:52 EST
it is answered in my message above. I didn't write that response for a little fun




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:44:19 EST
read my message above
Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:43:59 EST
or maybe they also hacked auth0 ???!?!!?




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:43:46 EST
exactly




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:43:32 EST
it would be 'ideal' if we did, right?




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:43:01 EST
nope - read my message above




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:42:31 EST
By all means, change your password should you wish to, but it’s more than unlikely any of your
accounts have been breached. This is just a person stooping to new lows while he tries to remain
relevant. Maybe he should tr
y covering some real world issues, or I don't know .. maybe like a real and significant data breach
from some of the biggest corporations in the world? But no .. that's not Earth 2.




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:40:55 EST
​and what about if he was lying about that? Did you ever consider that side? Or is everything he
 says automatically the truth ?




Shane
12/10/2022 at 16:40:01 EST
you thought there would be some more “caring”? Or do you mean were expecting it to cause more
chaos? What better way to try and discredit or derail a project that’s obviously about to share
something that will prove a lot
of the critics wrong, including the one who posted the video, than to release videos on the platform
being hacked? Very convenient. And how convenient he couldn’t login with any of the ‘hacked
passwords’ because “Earth
2 fixed it” before he could record. You’re telling me that when he ‘apparently’ logged in to one of
these accounts he didn’t take any screenshots or screen record it? How surprising. We did not fix
any major security data brea
ch under the terms he publicly stated. I didn’t realise people were so desperate for attention .. but I
guess that happens when the main reason you’re relevant in the public arena is for hating that one
project, you need to kee
p finding ways to hate on it or your relevance starts to dwindle. Kind of removes that relevancy
once that project starts proving you wrong. So instead of manning up and admitting it, why not
double down and create content
with double the lies, screaming for that little bit of attention – because these videos have certainly
passed simple criticism. But we now have this person publicly stating incorrect information as
absolute facts. It’s one thing h
aving an opinion, but another to state things as indisputably true. What I imagine has happened is
they have come across a very old list of data, potentially from one of the many phishing sites that
targeted Earth 2 in early 2
021 OR from a ‘rumoured’ hack that apparently leaked some details, but again, that’s from early
2021 and we were never able to find the details of the apparent leak at the time. We were mainly
using GraphQL at that point
but we moved away from using it as part of our core stack over a year ago for that very reason, the
potential security issues with GraphQL. And EVEN if someone did manage to hack GraphQL at
the time, the hashed pass
words he refers to was in fact dummy data (for dummies), hence why he probably could not login
to any of the accounts and just claimed Earth 2 miraculously ‘fixed the security break’ before he
could record it. I am fairly co
nfident that the group he has constantly working with him to try and find ways to derail Earth 2
have perhaps come across a very old data leak (if this is even true) and if it is true, then surprise,
surprise, he’s claiming the bra
gging rights on someone else’s work and is irrefutably stating that he was responsible for just a
month ago. I mean either way, he is publicly claiming to be involved with attempting to hack a
company website and share the
data, even if obfuscated, publicly on YouTube. For those worried about their accounts being
compromised, it is extremely unlikely unless you fell victim to a phishing attack – but even then –
we have 2FA (which could have
been turned on a long time ago) AND we have KYC (photographic account verification) now for
over a year so that IF an account was ever compromised, they would need to verify identity so we
would know who was paid o
ut anyway. And for the record, when all of those rumours were spreading early 2021, I
intentionally leaked details of an attractive Earth 2 account including the dummy hashed pw data.
Someone has tried to hack that accou
nt hundreds of times (I get emails every time an attempt occurs) and has still failed – the account
has never been breached. So again, like we announced in February 2021 – if you feel you have
fallen victim to a phishing sc
am then always change your password, but even if you did a long time ago, we don’t have any
reports of accounts having funds illegally withdrawn likely due to 2FA and KYC processes – this is
the exact reason we implem
ented those systems! Buy hey, it’s more fun to claim to have hacked Earth 2 a few weeks ago.
Just wanted to leave this message here for any Players that are concerned.




Shane
11/30/2022 at 14:00:46 EST
I'm really glad many of you understand the reasoning! I'm glad I was transparent about it. My
apologies to all of you who were excited for the release and scheduled in being available. I will
drop the sneak peek momentarily.
It's just a couple of short parts from some of the smaller scenes as I don't want to give too much
away !




Shane
11/28/2022 at 20:43:03 EST
please feel free to carry on once you've seen the E2V1 footage :)) It's just some concept art. If we
didn't show anything then people would be complaining about us not showing anything. We just
added some little concept ar
t for visuals. I literally explained in the video that our concept art team is too busy working on other
things so they couldn't dedicate much time to the video footage




Shane
11/28/2022 at 20:41:02 EST
I don't think I've ever requested a meme before, but can someone make a meme : "You're so vain
... you probably think this game is about you!" you guys know the tune :))




Shane
11/28/2022 at 18:55:06 EST
ok I really need to get back to it. I have a lot to do .. trying to keep you guys happy




Shane
11/28/2022 at 18:54:36 EST
peeling lol




Shane
11/28/2022 at 18:53:49 EST
oh and for anyone that thinks the gaming industry is not worthwhile, just checkout the growing
annual revenue. Much smarter for us to setup an interesting Metaverse with gamification
everywhere vs alternative options ..
Shane
11/28/2022 at 18:52:51 EST
no diss! I just mean that wasn't the look we were going for!




Shane
11/28/2022 at 18:48:12 EST
thanks to those in here pointing out that the civilians are simply parts of the game mechanics to
automate various tasks for Raiding and future required interactions of the EcoSim. Players will be
able to have their own popul
ation of civilians and so forth. It seems some would prefer we write a one sentence announcement
saying “There will be civilians that help you with stuff and they will probably cost 20 E-ther”. The
same people would probab
ly complain there is not enough info. This video about civilians does not at all cancel out other
goals to build, start from nothing, socialise, advertise, buy, sell, e-commerce etc. It just adds some
story to the background to ex
plain why things appear as opposed to saying they just appear. Earth 2 has many moving parts,
game play will be one of those parts, or do you think people will join Earth 2 solely to look at a
building and not play / do anythi
ng? If you follow the story, Earth 2 IS pristine and untouched and factions know about this. As a
gamer I certainly find it more interesting than having no background story whatsoever. Also, do
you think everyone should loo

k the same in E2V1? We should not have different characters, races etc – you have seen 3 so far
and there will be more. I wanted to re-create E1 I would have focused on something more like MS
Flight Simulator 2020 or C
ity Skylines. We’re going for something different but still at a massive scale. You’ll see what I
mean in the E2V1 video, but just remember there are many moving parts to Earth 2, I guess
people will never be happy with ever
y announcement or piece of information, but Civilians really are quite simple, we just spiced it up
and gave it some robustness instead of saying “all these things in E2 will happen automatically
without you needing to lift a fi
nger”. That’s what I want to get AWAY from and that’s what adds value to everything created
inside Earth 2 – because there has been a process to create it instead of it just being given to you.
I have a lot more to add, man
y valid points in here, but I just don't have time to type it out. Back to work for me.




Shane
11/27/2022 at 04:53:00 EST
yes, looked really cool. We just need to get through this month so we can come up for air.




Shane
11/27/2022 at 04:52:29 EST
sorry guys, I am seriously busy. Two 24 work days in the past 4 days - I am under the pump




Shane
11/27/2022 at 04:51:51 EST
I know - I want it live too! Trust me! You can see in the Raiding deep dive that there are a lot of
moving pieces to Raiding and a lot of feature creep to change it into something that is more
strategic. I am pushing the team su
per hard to get it into stage2 so those in the community who like to help out can do so, then I'll
have a lot of the dev resources focused on fixing bugs so we can get it live as soon as possible.
What you're getting with raiding
is a lot bigger than what I was referring to some months ago. Perhaps that is little comfort to you
now but still something to consider




Shane
11/27/2022 at 04:49:27 EST
because the progress of #E2V1 is a big part of what we’ve been focusing on and we’re providing
an update to those who want to see it. If you’d prefer not to watch it you have that choice. It’s odd
that we would be criticised f
or releasing footage to prove we have been making great progress on our flagship technology,
especially when many in here accuse us of not doing very much. Not every release of information
is going to excite every pers
on, I get that, but you do have a choice not to watch it if it annoys you – that’s certainly not our
goal. I get where you’re coming from but things like this just shows we’re working on multiple
facets of Earth 2 concurrently, #E2
​V1 is a big part of the end goal. I’m sure we’re not the first project to release visual footage of
 progress and I’m certain it might give many a good, visual idea of what to look forward to and help
 with more patience from som
 e in our community who like to see the visual stuff. Sunday evening here and I have been working
 all weekend, still working. Dinner getting cold but what do you do? Back to work for me!




Shane
11/24/2022 at 19:48:24 EST
I really need to go guys - 4hrs in two days .. you already know. Have a good day!




Shane
11/24/2022 at 19:47:56 EST
please read latest article details (100m tile winner)




Shane
11/24/2022 at 19:47:29 EST
hang in there




Shane
11/24/2022 at 19:47:24 EST
not at this point




Shane
11/24/2022 at 19:44:50 EST
Happy Thanksgiving to all of you celebrating overseas! Around 2,000 Approvals to celebrate for
you guys. The CAT isn't moving slower, it's just there are more weaker claims as they progress
through the list. Still coming ac
ross strong claims though and they are still far from the end of the list. Just food for thought so you
realise why there are less approvals, not because the CAT has stopped or is working slower. Have
a great day ! I'm extrem
ely busy!




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:38:44 EST
ok - I need to get going everyone. Thanks for the questions, so many good ones. I will check
Twitter over the next couple of days on my recent tweet and try to answer any more I see when I
get the chance. Hope you all ha
ve a safe day




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:37:21 EST
I would love to attend, but the way it's looking right now I am not sure whether I will have the time
to get in the right frame of mind!




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:36:13 EST
I can't give you an exact time I am sorry.
Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:35:44 EST
there is risk in everything. Many speculate about the potential price of Essence and I think most
people could guess, ever a little, about what that might be. I guess some use Essence to craft now
to sell Jewels or for their o
wn benefit and that's the risk. Maybe it paid off short term, maybe it didn't. I think these are things
people have to weigh up before using Essence in anything until an external price is set. Raiding
will kind of avoid this issue in
a way, because there will be a direct chance to recoup Essence spent .. not saying more




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:33:13 EST
yes




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:32:56 EST
maybe ..




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:32:37 EST
maybe. I am not aware of exactly who did this but there will always be different approaches taken
by different people.




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:31:23 EST
it's always a question of whether it's the right fit and whether our visions align. Hard to find that
type of VC, but not impossible




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:30:36 EST
just another day in the office




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:30:18 EST
correct. It will be the MVP for the raiding game mechanics. I can't give more away without
negating the purpose of the upcoming announcement / video. It will 100% migrate into E2V1
otherwise I would not be wasting time t
o build it




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:28:52 EST
that's very cool!




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:28:27 EST
there is a question of liquidity etc. Lots of moving pieces to these things. It's obviously much easier
to list a token first and then work it out. There are many more moving pieces when you
retroactively list a token, but I think
we will make it all work out very well in the end




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:26:13 EST
it will be a lot easier than without the utility, progress etc. Earlier this year projects could get away
with speculation alone. Clearly that is not the case right now so strategies change
​Shane
 11/09/2022 at 19:25:16 EST
 I understand your point. Over time we will keep rewarding creativity as best we can. We have
 higher priorities now after dedicating recent resources to build those updates that support creators
 (HB U2U etc). We will come b
 ack around to it again. Thanks for understanding




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:23:18 EST
I don't drink coffee




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:23:09 EST
I have never set any standard here. In fact I believe I made it clear that the EcoSim was not
something players should expect to get super rich from. More often than not, people make their
own luck / future / success, whate
ver you want to call it. Many have already done so in the platform we have to date by just
knuckling down and focusing on the different opportunities they have right now. These
opportunities will expand over time. You might
have successful people from E1 who come into E2 and create new ways to interact with them,
their brand, whatever. There are countless ways that people can step up and take advantage of
what we are building, but it will
be those active on the platform who likely receive the most back




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:19:23 EST
even though it will be on the website it will introduce everyone to concepts we will see inside of
E2V1. I also think it will be engaging enough for many, probably more engaging than Staking but
without the requirement to be
the fastest (at least not talking seconds). If someone is playing something, it's still a game. We
have more DAU on our good old website than many 3D games being released on steam and we
have not even released our 3
D world yet .. think about that for a minute




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:16:54 EST
not at this point .. unless we just kicked off our own little exchange starting with Essence inside of
Earth 2..




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:16:27 EST
sorry lol




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:15:36 EST
yes, it will be on the website and playable this year but I am pushing to get the MVP out as soon
as possible. As you guys will see, I saw MVP but it's quite complicated to build. You'll find out
more from an upcoming annou
ncement




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:14:14 EST
yes, 100% it is. I realise it's not fun for anyone heavily invested in the crypto space right now, but
one of the good things is this type of volatility will weed out the weaker projects and leave the
stronger ones standing
Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:12:14 EST
correct




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:12:02 EST
thank you




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:11:46 EST
the boisterous gamers are hard to please. There is a majority who just play the game and ignore
the outside noise. Our problem is we don't have that 3D interactive world yet, but we're building
toward it and I'm trying to
make it as engaging as possible as we build to arrive at that point




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:10:13 EST
I believe I wrote we have already added utility (i.e storage). I am not aware of any platforms that
add in game utility to player created content to potentially reward / benefit creative players, though
I may be wrong. We will ad
d more utility over time when and where possible, but for now we have much higher priorities to
focus on. What I will say is you can clearly see we have spent considerable time and resources
building the marketplace and t
ools for creative people to create and sell things on Earth 2 to earn actual E$. We have spent a lot
of time on this and v1.1 is an additional considerable update about to be released. I cannot keep
focus on it now as we have
other core game mechanics to implement now which are more appealing to a much broader
audience. I have finally been able to focus on these with the recent change in control of game
design (me!). So for now, please re
alise what we have committed to for creators like you to date, and know we will continue to do so
over time. We have already added some utility which is clearly evident, with plans to add more. If
something looks good enou
gh sometimes people want to buy it. The onus is on the creator to arrive at the right price etc and
work out the right strategy. We can't be fully responsible for not only developing the tools and
marketplace and then the ince
ntive for others to buy




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:03:26 EST
I am not going to disclose anything now as there will be a video released talking about it




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:02:55 EST
I am pushing for civilians. Contracts is a very big and complicated update. It's also very exciting
though and will set some amazing foundations for the future of collaborate inside Earth 2. Be
patient, I hope to at least release
more details on how the system will work in the near future so everyone knows what's coming




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:01:44 EST
I saw some good deals but I promised myself I would not spend more than $45 dollars on that
account. I want that account to experience the journey of something who bought around $50 of
land and what they can achieve
as a considerably small player. I still login and collect my E-ther every day




Shane
11/09/2022 at 19:00:16 EST
there are flip sides to everything. The bottom line is I am not trying to look after a few people who
are motivated to get quick gains for Earth 2 and then bail. I realise those type of people will always
exist, but I'm more intere
sted in working out ways to reward those with the long term vision and intended support of Earth
2. I can't launch a token just because people want to cash out.. remember, the majority of T1 land
was sold without even the
notion of Essence. Essence was added to be used as utility for people who intend to partake in
the platform




Shane
​ 11/09/2022 at 18:57:27 EST
 yeah, there are a lot of projects in trouble. Many experienced quick growth to their token with
 future plans, but then there was nothing to do. That's why I am focusing on building things to do
 inside of Earth 2 before really pu
 shing it hard




Shane
11/09/2022 at 18:55:43 EST
this will probably be something ready more early next year. There are things we are altering which
may effect how that was originally intended to work. We have higher priorities right now, but once
I have an answer I will be
sure to tweet about it or get the details out




Shane
11/09/2022 at 18:54:16 EST
no problem, I won't respond to your messages any more. Just might be worth reading something
first before you choose to spread your negativity




Shane
11/09/2022 at 18:52:17 EST
and this? Sometimes I wonder if people have already formed their opinion and don't bother
reading what was written. I literally made reference to adding more real utility to Essence and
using the delay to build more value
for Essence for tomorrow than what we would have today. I have also stated in the past on a
number of occasions I was happy to delay and add more utility to Essence. It seems if I don't add
every single reference I've
made at every point in time to any form of correspondence I share, someone will look for the one
thing missing and jump on that bandwagon of doom and gloom.




Shane
11/09/2022 at 18:49:20 EST
how on earth did you come to this conclusion from what I tweeted? It's perplexing ..




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:50:38 EST
I have to go guys, is 9:50am and I have to be in the city shortly. Hope you all have a good day




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:49:59 EST
I am not aware of this. The process at the moment is really frustrating (at least I found it clunky
when I tried it recently). I have asked for some redesign there but will not happy in full any time
soon, we have bigger issues. I
guess I have no direct answer for you right now




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:49:03 EST
sorry, not going to happen




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:48:43 EST
we are making steps in the right direction. Not sure I would go as far as saying excited.




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:47:55 EST
yes, we are always aware. I have answered this previously in more detail (in Discord)




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:46:15 EST
yes, will be part of the new website but will not be super detailed. We learned that lesson quickly




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:45:51 EST
it's sitting on stage 2 right now, just waiting for some final things on HB v1.1




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:45:35 EST
not yet, tickets are just sitting there though. I have not had time to even look what when I might fly
out there now




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:45:09 EST
is why it was a draft and things change. This year has been very different than many had expected
and we need to adapt to that




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:44:31 EST
np I understand. I have no feathers to ruffle. Welcome




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:43:58 EST
thank you - I am still alive. Doing well is always the questionable part




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:43:30 EST
no, I have made that very clear numerous times. Will start on the current website then migrate into
E2V1




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:43:07 EST
more of a talk / walkthrough and some explanation




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:42:39 EST
crazy / busy .. all the same never changes really




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:42:29 EST
​you'll find out soon




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:42:11 EST
yes, should definitely be on stage 2 and I will be pushing for as close to the end of Nov as
possible. It looks simple, concept is simple, but there are many moving parts to the concept. You
guys will understand soon I think




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:41:03 EST
morning guys - hope you're all well




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:40:56 EST
yes, you were not alone!




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:40:17 EST
I've come to be with you again




Shane
11/08/2022 at 18:39:47 EST
I've come to be with you again




Shane
11/04/2022 at 18:45:41 EDT
I told you guys we're working on .. stuff .. anyway, back to my (Saturday morning) work




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:49:12 EDT
it's impossible to stop every type of bot. Even massive online games still have not managed to
stop them, Facebook, Social Media. We will always do our best to stop them but it's impossible to
guarantee. We do monitor sta
ts and if something looks abnormal it will be flagged. Also, hold in there and see what the game
mechanics are going to be, it will be a lot slower paced for everyone and a much more even
playing field for those who want to
participate.




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:46:34 EDT
ahh not yet. I will make a note to check it out tomorrow! Sorry, I do appreciate the gesture. I am
really off now guys. Have a good day!




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:44:47 EDT
if you think we're worried about acquiring new players, you have our priorities mixed up. Perhaps
that is something you want, I am not concerned about those numbers, I am concerned with
building. I think you're also the sa
me person who continues to hound me on Twitter with doom and gloom quotes? Our DAU at
3,000 or something? Another figure way off .. no idea where you're getting your stats from but they
are incorrect. And what do you
mean about a chain reaction? If someone wants to leave the project they can at any time. Most
who do leave with a profit and then proceed to bag the project, it's their loss, I am not concerned. If
you want miracles overnigh
t it's probably the wrong project to be involved with, it takes many years to build what we are
building. There will be ups and downs along the way, that will suit some and not others - just
please try to refrain from making up
numbers and quoting them is all I am asking.




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:37:07 EDT
I like having time for either - something I don't have .. or time for anything else for that matter. You
try running a start up like Earth 2 with over 60 in the team, plus the separate social media project
PLUS have a family with 3
kids. I forgot what it feels like to have a life.




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:35:30 EDT
hey, remember those times when you guys are like "man, I wish I could just see an
announcement". An announcement for an announcement is better than no announcement at all,
right?! And remember when people were g
etting sick of the Dev Vlogs, but then wanted more. Just enjoy the moment! The announcements
don't write themselves and they often contain interesting details! Hopefully there will be some
interesting things to read, see a
nd discuss through this month!




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:22:11 EDT
ok - that's my cue! I still have a few things to do so will bid you all adieu for now. Thank you!




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:20:36 EDT
THAT'S what I like to hear !




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:20:15 EDT
oh - happy birthday @._miss.tee_. !




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:18:34 EDT
you're very welcome. Thanks for making such a touching, inspirational video. Hopefully I didn't
look or sound as tired as I was, I tried to mask it!




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:14:57 EDT
you know me too well. My sleep has been worse than usual these days and I have to wake up in a
few hours.. sorry if this message was going to be so obvious. You guys should be hearing quite a
few things through the mo
nth, and seeing a few things. So keep that patience up a little longer !




Shane
10/31/2022 at 11:12:49 EDT
haha .. you guys are posting birthday videos and messages before 95% of the world is even on
Nov 1! I am always looking at last possible time zones, you guys don't even wait for the time zone!
LOL .. this really made me l
augh, I do sincerely admire the eagerness and impatience(?). Like opening Christmas presents
the day before Christmas? But on a serious note, thank you for the kind messages above. I have
requested they all be screens
hotted tomorrow by someone in the office. Each message means a lot to myself and the Earth 2
team. Let's swap Pacey, you released a video in my time zone, so let me release an
announcement in yours (and I don't mean
before your Nov 1 even begins!!!). Whatever the latest time zone is! It seems my entire life is about
needing more time. Thank you everyone for the kind messages and I hope you all enjoy the month
ahead! Happy birthday
Earth 2!
​Shane
 10/26/2022 at 13:53:08 EDT
 there are many things that happened internally which you guys know nothing about. Many very
 odd betrayals as well. We're getting into a better space now with positive, talented people who
 genuinely want the project to su
 cceed. I really need to go now. Thanks again everyone




Shane
10/26/2022 at 13:48:35 EDT
the honest answer is that I was pretty overwhelmed by the growth of Earth 2, working incredibly
long hours (35+ hr shifts) over weeks and months, it does a lot to your head. I was working with a
new team I had very little ex
perience with which I needed to keep together as a group plus a community that expected what
the team told them. Nathaniel and Wolfgang were not exposed to those type of work hours. If it
happened today, it would be a
different story, but hindsight is 20/20 and unlike some, I take my responsibility seriously, hence I
am still here, making this work. Sorry guys, I know there are many good questions and many I
would really like to answer. Per
haps I could do a QandA at that upcoming metaverse event (if I can find the time). But bear in
mind there might be a lot of questions answered over the next month and no doubt new questions
to fill their place. Is almost 4a
m and I need to get some sleep. Thanks for the comments of support and the interesting
questions. Have a safe day




Shane
10/26/2022 at 13:37:00 EDT
I agree, that would be very nice and it was very nice when it lasted, but unfortunately we learned
the hard way that little comments from team members carry a lot of weight. Nathaniel, for
example, made the Red Dead Rede
mption 2 claim without any consultation with the internal team, ONE discord comment. We never
had any claim like that officially published, not on the website, announcements etc. One comment
from a dev, and look at ho
w much that comment has been used against the project since? He may have had good intentions,
but look at the result. Wolfgang, also I am sure he had good intentions, but he also made the
comment about real world
resources being on the land a Player purchased without really thinking about how it would all
work. I loved the idea, but we were left with working out realistically how it would work and that
committed the project to ensuring
1) Players received some form of resource based on real world locations but which also meant 2)
we had to provide Players with the opportunity to report resources they believe they were entitled
to. In the end we develope
d the E2 Player Resource Validation system, which is cool, but it took a considerable amount of
time to build something like that we had not originally planned for. Those are just two, I would like
to think innocent, remarks th
at caused a significant amount of problems and / or work for the team. There are other examples
as well, but those two sprung to mind when you referenced those two individuals. That's why we
limit direct dev communicati
on now.




Shane
10/26/2022 at 13:29:28 EDT
and what do you think we will be showing toward the end of next month?
Shane
10/26/2022 at 13:28:46 EDT
it will and it does. We have also clearly displayed this in Dev Vlog 8 I think it was. Unfortunately it
doesn't shut people up because they conveniently decide to ignore the fact it's already been
shown. I guess that will continue
to be the case, no matter what we release, the next point of attack will be brought up and focused
on until that is also proven wrong and so on and so forth. I only wish people would be a little more
understanding for a project
that is still considered extremely young in the game development world.




Shane
10/26/2022 at 13:25:53 EDT
you mean "the empty world with no game" that we were continuously accused of not being able to
make, yet when we show proof of making it, the accusations move to the next goal post,
conveniently overlooking proof of
progress we've clearly shown in released of footage. We have to build "the empty world with no
game" before we can add the gameplay, right? The whole point of Earth 2 is to build this massive
open world the same size as
Earth, so why dismiss the important of that empty world so easily. (I am just going to respond to a
few earlier comments here, sorry I don't have time to answer new questions today).




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:55:36 EDT
anyway, coming up to midnight and I still have things to do. Hope you all enjoy your day ahead
and keep safe




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:55:01 EDT
the new landing page I have scheduled for Nov




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:54:20 EDT
is the last thing on my mind right now, but I'd love to attend. Let's see if I'm still breathing by the
end of Nov .. a lot going on




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:53:36 EDT
I think I have pointed out before that it will start off web based and just text etc. The key is it will be
built into E2V1, so it's kind of using the mechanics before the visuals come into play. I think a few
people will like it as it's rel
ated to Earth 2 and is relevant to the long term goals of the EcoSim + E2V1




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:52:13 EDT
you're welcome. Thanks for always having such a positive outlook.




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:51:36 EDT
unlikely, we already have too much on our plate as it is




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:51:09 EDT
well, it's my idea. I am trying to psych myself up to talk about it .. sigh ..
Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:50:33 EDT
I receive so many emails and messages on linkedin, I rarely read them. I think I have around
1,000 unread messages or more there. I just don't have the time. I am sure there will be ways to
collaborate in the future when we
have better structure in place




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:49:16 EDT
100% they will. I wanted to add Utility to Jewels and PvP was created, in part, to allow for that.
Slotting 'new things' will be part of PvP




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:48:10 EDT
coincidental I would say. The team we hired came up with the name themselves, which was pretty
cool
​Shane
 10/25/2022 at 09:47:05 EDT
 yes, I think I've mentioned that before. They will be a key tool for Players to teleport / jump to key
 locations. Let me tell you this, do you know how hard it is to find an exact specific spot inside
 E2V1? Even if you know the ge
 neral area, good luck finding it again if it's small! EPLs will be very important I imagine




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:45:46 EDT
shhh




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:45:32 EDT
you'll not need to wait long to find out. I want to talk about it during the birthday month. There are
many different key parts to it, it's quite complicated. I would love to have the first part live toward
the end of next month, I am
pushing for this, but nothing is 100% in software development. What I can say is that many of you
will have a very decent idea on how everything will work by the time the month is through and
should be quite interesting




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:43:09 EDT
we will release PvP, CAT will finish processing Claims, figures will be published before the
EcoSim starts and before Essence launches. I am not locking in a date / timeframe sorry




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:42:00 EDT
I was not involved with this area previously. There were others in control and believe me, many
things were passed onto them and that's basically where it ended. I have some more direct
involvement myself now and I will b
e replacing those positions with people I know can do a better job (and people I actually hire, not
introduced via internal members)




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:39:37 EDT
I think we'd like to get it stable first. So will be a good opportunity to launch, balance, fix bugs over
ensuing months as we build toward an Essence launch. Once Essence launches and has an
external price I think we will se
e a lot of interest in different ways that will actual exist by that time, for new users to earn Essence
Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:36:33 EDT
sometimes - no sugar




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:35:46 EDT
I like your username, but I don't drink coffee! I used to..




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:35:01 EDT
sometimes you need to look at the result, not the how you arrived at it. I appreciate your support
and anyone's support of the project, but it should be clear we have significant work ahead of us
and that takes time. I cannot c
ontrol what you want to do I'm sorry, I can only keep pushing the project forward




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:32:13 EDT
yes we are, the HB journey is terrible .. I was shocked when I tried it myself. There are little things
being improved and others will be reworked




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:31:42 EDT
I thought it was pretty bad seeing those locked listings in the marketplace so used a bit of time to
get it fixed, I don't mind, I am fixing things every day as a CEO, takes up a lot of my time but is
quite normal.




Shane

10/25/2022 at 09:29:57 EDT
I think this might be where the problem is, people assuming something takes 5-10 mins when it
simply doesn't. Anyway, I don't have time to argue the point, it is what it is and if I want to tweet a
question, whether you or any
one else agrees with it or not, I will. Especially if it saves my team a bit of time and allows the
community to provide some feedback




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:28:27 EDT
yes, we've already discussed this but again, it's prioritising. So it will likely come later. I also want
the staking system to be used for suggestions in the future.




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:27:28 EDT
5-10 mins? I highly doubt that. I probably saved hours of research for one simple tweet that people
have the option of responding to or not. I am not sure how you could still suggest it's sad that I
asked the question after rea
ding through what I wrote




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:25:27 EDT
yes, there is a kind of 4th team as well and yes, there are overlaps




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:25:01 EDT
it's a mixture of many things. What we are building is not such an easy thing to build and we're
doing so in quite testing conditions. Also, things that were important at the start of a year might not
be so important toward the
end of the year if we make better or less progress in various areas. External market conditions
also affect decisions etc. Finding the right talent is definitely an ongoing issue for any start up but
we're slowly onboarding the ri
ght people




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:21:21 EDT
that's what I thought




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:21:09 EDT
I spent a little time today working with a dev to get some of the locked country listings removed




Shane
​ 10/25/2022 at 09:20:21 EDT
 At the end of the day, creating a game takes a lot of time, and the challenges Earth 2 has for
 creating a metaverse platform with foundations based on various types of gamification is arguably
 even more time consuming – e
 specially with what we aim to deliver long term. Many decent games take even established studios
 over 5 years to deliver and more often than not, they still don’t release features or things to do
 along the way, so you don’t
 often get this raw connection like you do with Earth 2 and the ability to access, buy, trade various
 key digital assets of the game along the way. We are literally coming to an end on year 2 with 12
 months of that time being
 mayhem after hypergrowth scaling and the past 12 months slowly putting a better team together
 and parting ways with members who didn’t genuinely care about Earth 2 and were causing more
 harm than good. So forgive
 me if I disagree with your statement of it being ‘just pathetic’ for me to ask for some community
 feedback. And I’m sorry you’ve been so disappointed in the Earth 2 and openly critical of our little
 Egg Hunt to give Players rew
 ards + something to do, and which personally gave you $2,400 in winnings. Perhaps if I hadn’t I
 would not have pushed for the locked country listings to be filtered out, most of which have
 already been filtered out now. My t
 weet did not delay PvP, or E2V1 or other areas, it was just a little of my time working with a free
 dev to at least get those locked listings out of the marketplace for now.. it might even mean
 ‘something else’ happens for thos
 e who look carefully enough over the next little while. Anyway, I am back to focusing on more
 pressing matters but I do appreciate those who just answered my tweet with their own suggestion
 instead of complaining about
 something that was supposed to be positive, thank you. Later this year all suggestions will be
 reviewed and taken into consideration by the team member responsible for drawing up the
 detailed doc for the MarketPlace upd
 ate and I will try to fit in little, obvious quick fixes on improvements if I get a spare chance along
 the way.




Shane
10/25/2022 at 09:19:43 EDT
We’re very busy focusing on many different things. Just because I tweet about one thing does not
mean something else is not happening, or has stopped happening. I simply received some
feedback and screenshots recen
tly of people in the community talking about how difficult it still was to use the MarketPlace. I
thought this had been resolved in a previous update by the previous game designer, but obviously
that was not the case so I deci
ded to throw out a little, what I thought was a fairly inconsequential tweet, to engage with the
community and collect some suggestions that would then provide a central location for someone
from my game design team to la
ter review, collate and compare to our own internal documentation (which I am sure will include
things provided from CMs/MODs that may have been ignored by the previous person who was
responsible, not sure, but obvi
ously whatever happened in the past, the updates didn’t make it to the website – right?). Would it
have been better to assign a team member to the task without asking the community for
suggestions and then potentially mis
s something? Spend more time brainstorming and not bother asking Earth 2 Players that were
happy to respond? And just because something has been suggested in the past, does that mean
there is nothing new or worth
while hearing from another person? I just took a quick look through some of the responses to my
tweet and there seems to be many good, reasonable suggestions which is exactly what I was
looking for. It’s also a way of m
e showing that I am aware of something and I’m planning to fix it. This MarketPlace update is a
relatively small update, we have much bigger things we’re focusing on first so by no means does it
suggest it’s now a big ticket
release replacing other things we’re working on, that’s why I pointed out it will be something in
2023 so people don’t expect it to happen next week and then ask about it every day. It seems the
MarketPlace was partially imp
roved during its last update, but it seems to have been updated without really taking a lot of
community feedback onboard and I wanted to ensure I had some of that community feedback to
direct my team toward when impr
oving the section does come up on our radar. I have only recently taken control of Game Design
and myself + the new team have been working around the clock not only to design and then guide
this Raiding concept throu
gh development, which is extremely time consuming alone, especially considering the Raiding
concept is much larger than just PvP and will introduce multiple core facets of the EcoSim + utility
to existing and new key digit
al assets, but also to fix and complete key areas of the EcoSim which were previously neglected
and this has been a massive, still ongoing task (but it's going very well). I am extremely proud of
what we as such a small tea
m has achieved in a very short period of time and you’ll see that difference over the next 12
months when compared to say the last 12 or even 18 months, from the game design perspective
that is. Additionally, these are
the first game design team members I have directly hired for the project and who were not directly
introduced or hired by other internal team members and I must say it’s been very refreshing. It’s
really difficult to find the righ
t people at the best of times, and especially so when you have so much dramatised & misleading
external noise and negativity being conjured toward the project.




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:51:39 EDT
anyway, I know you guys don't like hearing it but I slept 2 hours last night and I want to try get
another nap in before my meetings / obligations start again later today. I just saw people wishing
Drew a happy birthday when I
opened the chat and responded, didn't intend to reply to so many questions but hopefully it was
useful for you all!




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:50:09 EDT
yes, I feel brilliants should have a lot more utility




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:49:10 EDT
it's like neither of these. I tried to spell it out clearly in my first lengthy message above. It will be
100% website based, in the current website form more or less, however, it will be using an engine
we're building for E2V1 and
will be representable inside E2V1 once we connect the two systems. It was a lot to write out above
so please go back and read that comment for more details.




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:47:24 EDT
no




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:47:11 EDT
I am learning about giving timelines so I would just say I am hoping for some kind of alpha access
in the next 6 months. For the record, we could have released E2V1 with an egg hunt this year, but
it would have meant we l
ost a lot of progress on a playable E2V1. These are the decisions that happen in the background
and are made in the best interest of the project long term
Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:45:33 EDT
yes, when we're ready for that we will setup an Alpha and Beta environment. We're not ready for
that yet




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:44:50 EDT
sometimes you need to step back and rethink. I wouldn't say it's easy to solve, but stepping back
and looking at possible ways to solve it which you may not yet have contemplated may help




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:43:56 EDT
yes




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:43:36 EDT
trust me, there is more utility coming for Jewels in my PvP and then we will also go on to review
the Jewel section. I have been extremely disappointed at how Jewels were structured




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:42:41 EDT
well that's what I was openly deliberating on above, if you care to check later. I want to release
footage too and show how many amazing things we've made progress with, but if I do it would
come at the expense of losing a
significant promotional digital asset at token launch




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:40:48 EDT
I also felt this, which is why I was pushing for that approach. We are working on an incredibly
interesting system, in fact multiple systems, I think many of you will be pretty mind blown with how
different parts of the EcoSim
are going to work and how much structure there will be. It will all start with my PvP concept .. I just
wish I had become involved like this with game design a year ago and done this, but I guess at
that time I already had too
much on my plate. ANyway, it's going to start soon




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:38:19 EDT
mainly landing page and content, it looks very nice. We worked on it with R/GA. It's something
we've been meaning to do for a long time and gives us a nice new design to convey our goals,
visions etc
​Shane
 10/12/2022 at 18:37:18 EDT
 I would say within the 6 month mark.




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:36:23 EDT
we are looking at ways to allow staking for this. It's too complicated to answer simply and I don't
want to throw too much information out there. What I can say is that I have been working with a
new talent who is just absolut
ely amazing, it was unfortunate what happened previously, but sometimes faces change for a
reason and in this case I am very happy with how things worked out.
Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:34:50 EDT
yes, in a round about way




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:34:36 EDT
if I'm still sane by then, I could probably do a video interview or something. I won't have time to fly
over there unfortunately




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:33:39 EDT
will be announced next month as well. A LOT of work into that one, but will launch as an MVP we
plan to build on




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:32:28 EDT
that is something I would announce to everyone, I don't have a specific date to release to the
public right now




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:32:02 EDT
possibly true - good point. Even more reward for those who maintain the belief I guess!




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:31:28 EDT
yes, it remains untrimmed




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:31:19 EDT
we are looking at various solutions, at the moment it runs as an exe file, but we are looking at
solutions where it could even run in browser or via a client




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:30:24 EDT
please take me with you j/k I love all you guys in here




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:29:29 EDT
yeah it's a tough one, because the footage would also give a pretty clear picture on what we are
planning for Earth 2. A nice visual representation on the future, and plans. And as much as I
would love to release it during ou
r b'day month, I do feel it won't be nearly as effective as it would be closer to the token launch




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:27:36 EDT
it will work in a very similar way, yes. The difference is our system will be a lot more complicated
over time and allow a LOT more freedom for land owners and land operators to build agreements
between one another.




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:25:31 EDT
our team is working all of this, around the clock. There are MANY moving parts to E2V1. One thing
you have to understand is that the original demo we showed last year was more like a POC,
applied to a limited area. The
engine we've built for E2V1 is 100x better and covers the entire planet. We've made awesome
progress, but sometimes you can get stuck on the smallest thing, something you expected to take
2 weeks ends up being 2 mo
nths. There is a lot more to show though and I am kind of contemplating showing some through
Nov, which will be great for you guys to see if we release it, but it would then mean we have less
wow factor for closer proximit
y to the token launch. I am yet undecided on this. I understand people want to see progress, but if
you look back at what we've released this year, you can see we're working on things. It depends,
should we keep that type o
f footage for the token launch or should I just release it ..




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:21:12 EDT
you'll probably find out later today




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:20:55 EDT
we will start releasing some visuals through Nov, but as I said, this will start 100% web based,
having said that, there will be visuals for different things you can build / create, and these will be
visually represented (move etc)
inside E2V1 at a later date




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:19:45 EDT
well, this is where things get really complicated. You're asking the right questions, just imagine
how difficult it is to solve these kind of issues




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:18:36 EDT
I think there are some people in here who have given it a great deal of thought and have some
speculation that is on point. But that is only the concept, you won't know how it works until we
disclose more details. Though it's
definitely stressful, this is the first time I have had complete control on the game design, it's
something I should have done a year ago .. but hindsight is 20/20, better late than never and E2V1
has come a long, long way sinc
e last November. Even with what you guys have seen you can see it's come and long way since
then.




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:15:48 EDT
yeah I understand, but there are still many positive supporters in here. I think most just don't speak
out, though there are those that do. It's nice to see those positive messages so thank you to those
who do speak up daily a
nd keep things positive.
​Shane
 10/12/2022 at 18:14:00 EDT
 I've tried to point this out a few times on Twitter, and maybe once in Discord, but basically my
 game play concept is an introduction to the EcoSim, a kind of light version with some PvP
 elements, but a lot more. It's going to
 be completely based in the website, so nothing animated. One of the keys here is that it will be a
 game loop that can lead directly into representation inside of E2V1. So we are still very heavily
 focused on E2V1, and though
 my game / PvP idea is complicated to develop, we're not spending time with any animations or
 diverting resources away from E2V1, we are using the BE And FE web teams to implement on the
 current website. Additionally
 , we're expanding our BE game engine (kind of building a new one) which will be the motor /
 powerhouse for E2V1. So the idea, while something new, does not really divert much away from
 our goal to get game play on E2
 V1 at all, it's just a little step to introduce and give Players something to do. One more comment,
 the reason I designed this game the way I have is so people can play casually, so it will work on
 kind of hourly / daily loops, a
s opposed to staking which is kind of at the other end of the spectrum. Anyway, just a few bits of
information. There is 100% scope creep, but I am pushing to have the first part out in Nov still
even if it means things like Play
er Contracts and Civilians follows a little later. Though it's on the website, it's actually a pretty
complicated concept to develop with many moving parts.




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:04:46 EDT
then my plan has finally been realised




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:04:19 EDT
I'm ok thanks. Just getting my little dose of stress reading through every possible negative
scenario some people can think up and decide to come and share on Discord lol. Nice to see the
speculation and positive comment
s though!




Shane
10/12/2022 at 18:00:29 EDT
Happy Birthday @drewe2 !!




Shane
10/06/2022 at 12:44:15 EDT
sorry guys, I just dropped in to answer those few questions. I know that nobody likes hearing it but
it's almost 3am for me and I need to wake up in 3 hours. I will try to answer some questions on
Twitter as it's less intense th
ere and I can respond when I get a free moment.




Shane
10/06/2022 at 12:42:36 EDT
good luck




Shane
10/06/2022 at 12:42:19 EDT
have been in that office since June 2021, so not really new. But it's a nice office




Shane
10/06/2022 at 12:41:44 EDT
we are aware of this announcement but because there will be a decent prize for the winner, we
thought to announce it in the b'day month. I can confirm, unfortunately, that you did not win this
time around.




Shane
10/06/2022 at 12:40:12 EDT
there have been over 20K approvals since the start. That is an average of around 240 approvals
per day. That CAT also follows a process when checking so I would say that's a pretty decent daily
number (and there are a c
ouple of thousand ready to go live)




Shane
10/06/2022 at 12:38:36 EDT
hi Predict. I can see your last claim was about 15 hrs ago. Have you tried to create a new claim in
the last hour or so and have you still been charged?
Shane
08/31/2022 at 08:32:38 EDT
it's not the drone editor, not sure how this can be said with such confidence. Hope everyone is
well, I need to get back to work. Didn't sleep much last night, have had a very long day and still
going. Early start tomorrow. We
will monitor and improve the U2U trading system over coming weeks, just wanted to get the first
version out. Announcement will be made once all the blueprints have been processed.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:21:51 EDT
sorry guys, it's really nice to catch up and see so many familiar faces. I do need to get a few hours
sleep as I have a family day ahead of me. Nice to catch up and thanks again for the ongoing
support. Keep safe and will ch
at again shoon!




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:20:37 EDT
did you check stage2?




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:20:21 EDT
I think I answered that too




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:20:07 EDT
I think I answered that question above, first question I answered if you'd like to scroll up




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:19:47 EDT
we have made a number of updates to the marketplace and will continue to do so




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:19:27 EDT
I am not the Jewel guy, but as you know, I'm not shy of tweaking things as development
progresses.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:18:54 EDT
NDAs I'm sorry
​Shane
 08/12/2022 at 15:18:38 EDT
 it's pretty complicated, I don't know enough to explain it here. Details will be released though and
 from what I understand all previous information released is relevant




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:17:25 EDT
I am not sure. I think claims turn up on the heat map every 24hrs? I could be wrong




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:17:08 EDT
yes it could, but we're probably using it more internal right now. We should have some cool things
on E2V1 in the future. We will release a very basic version initially then build on it




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:16:17 EDT
good to hear




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:16:09 EDT
hello Arya




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:15:31 EDT
it's just sitting there. We probably should release it




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:15:12 EDT
ahh .. I am 30 mins behind on chat




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:14:31 EDT
I am sure larger accounts will have some pretty massive advantages long term .. I mean you could
almost control your own empires. Let's let the smaller accounts get some benefit this time around
.. there will be more case
s in the future where we have things aimed at benefiting smaller accounts too. Long term I think
larger accounts will already have some pretty massive advantages.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:12:49 EDT
you will see some pretty cool functionality on E2V1. We also delayed any renewal costs until the
functionality is in action




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:12:17 EDT
lol




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:11:50 EDT
yes, I believe so. More will be coming next week. Many have already been pre-approved, they just
need to pass the next few steps




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:11:02 EDT
no, not at that point. We'll be focusing on launching the token first and then move onto other things
in phases




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:10:04 EDT
it would be a very bold claim for me to confirm that. I do however find it interesting that massive
companies working in the space are now stating similar things we've had listed as internal goals
since the beginning. Very rea
ssuring




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:08:20 EDT
I'm not sure how Karen's can get roasted in real life situations but glorified for being a YT Karen
bagging projects they are not evening involved with. It's like a Karen complaining the manager and
a restaurant they've never
eaten in. Some of these projects are just ambitious and trying to make a difference in the world. I
realise many are probably scams, but some are not and they don't bother to really check. It's
ironic they are using technolog
y created by people who were also ridiculed for thinking outside the box or trying something
different. An inventor fails multiple times before making something that people love and use, in fact
the games they play were prob
ably created by devs who failed multiple times before getting it right, why make life more difficult
for people who are already trying to achieve something difficult enough? Not really so much
Callum now though, I actually did
n't mind his last video and appreciated the fact he showed some genuine interest (though he was
still of course bagging the project).




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:01:25 EDT
tech is ready, but we need to build the marketplace for it. My idea there is actually quite
interesting, we haven't had time to fully spec it yet though




Shane
08/12/2022 at 15:00:52 EDT
that's a cool idea, but we want to get E2V1 out before creating mini games. This is the big key for
us. We have a few more things planned for the web page over the next couple of months, but that
gameplay will transition o
ver into E2V1 (or will be able to transition over in time)




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:59:19 EDT
I believe an update is coming next week on this. Both issues. There was definitely a massive
breakdown in communication internally our side on this




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:58:34 EDT
not initially




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:57:57 EDT
I think as the reward % drops, people will be more careful. We're building other things right now so
have limited time on too many updates
​Shane
 08/12/2022 at 14:57:09 EDT
 true. Was refreshing reading this.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:55:32 EDT
good luck with that goal!




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:55:00 EDT
glad you like it!
Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:54:37 EDT
I'm glad you note we are giving the community what they wanted. Yes, I know it's a bit late ..




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:53:43 EDT
they're not automatically approved and successful claims are refunded. We're not making money
on this ..




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:53:10 EDT
I'm not sure, I don't measure it. But I do tuck it into my shirt now so I guess it's quite long lol. My
barber phoned me the other day asking when I would come in to see him, and I told him the last
hair cut I had was with him. H
e thought that was over a year ago .. anyway, it's quite long I guess.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:51:31 EDT
then we wouldn't be here. Things happen for a reason. We also refund the $5 for successful
claims btw. This feature was not created to make us revenue, we're definitely losing profits on this,
but it's about keeping a promis
e (yes, maybe running behind schedule), but still keeping a promise and it's allowed us to create
an interesting system that can be used for other things in the future.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:50:33 EDT
I realise there are some that want it random again, however, there are more reasons to keep it as
countdowns for now.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:49:55 EDT
there are a few things that need to happen before the rejections start .. but trust me, there are a
few. For genuine mistakes I do want to give some Players one warning too. We have a lot of
Players who speak English as a s
econd language so I want to allow some room for understanding the first time round. But some
claims are obvious spam, trolling .. those will be in trouble initially I'd say (100 claims cancelled?)




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:48:00 EDT
it's a pretty cool system. Can be adapted for E2V1 too




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:47:34 EDT
it takes time to build a good team. Have certainly learned this




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:47:33 EDT
yes, batches




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:47:32 EDT
I realise there are some that want it random again, however, there are more reasons to keep it as
countdowns for now.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:46:00 EDT
Alive. How are you?




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:45:50 EDT
sorry, no spoiler planned .. or did I already give one?




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:45:34 EDT
yeah, it's a pretty cool system. Lots of moving cogs and can't wait to use it for different features in
the future. It's working really well so far




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:44:54 EDT
hence why I would like more utility for Essence before the token launches




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:44:29 EDT
oh, please don't make me stop my CEO role play .. I'm thoroughly enjoying it Azrelia.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:43:27 EDT
a) no - needs at least a prime Jewel (that primes the Mentar) b) yes c) I don't believe so. Need at
least one prime




Shane
​ 08/12/2022 at 14:42:27 EDT
 yeah that was fun




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:42:19 EDT
they were vetted, pre-approved, assigned, (and about 3/4 other steps) then final approval and
released




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:41:37 EDT
not without answering a few questions




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:41:21 EDT
that's incredible




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:41:05 EDT
no, it was for you




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:40:47 EDT
Wish it was 22




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:40:32 EDT
Good luck !




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:40:23 EDT
after we launch the token and being applying NFTs to various digital items inside E2. Around that
time I mean




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:39:41 EDT
thank you. Still alive and kicking




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:39:29 EDT
I heard it can moon. Is that right? Though I feel that cryptoland project ruined the word "moon" for
good.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:38:23 EDT
good idea. How have you been?




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:38:10 EDT
we're watching it closely. Should be interesting




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:37:35 EDT
sorry Drew - it's not you. But Happy Birthday nonetheless!




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:37:12 EDT
my schedule is just too crazy right now. I'd like to create some too but I literally can't find time to
sleep. Then I make a video when I'm dead tired, get criticised for how I speak etc. I was making
that effort before but right now
I am just too busy. I look forward to making more though when time frees up a little.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:36:07 EDT
thank you - it's almost 5am and I really need to sleep. I have a big family day ahead of me .. but I
will try to answer a few questions here first. It's good to see everyone in here
Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:35:34 EDT
it's up to you. There will be a use for E-ther relating to life. I am not sure saving now would be a
massive advantage, but I don't want to say either way in case you don't agree with me later. And
hey Butt




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:34:35 EDT
I am definitely aiming to have it released this year. We have a couple of features just hitting the
pipeline that will add more utility to Essence. The EcoSim is getting really close too. I mean, in
addition to what's been happeni
ng in the market, internally it just makes sense for us to hold off that little bit longer, have more
utility. We can release the new website, the whitepaper, the video footage, the social media app
will be pretty much ready to go
in Q4 too, all leading up to the end of year period. And we're pushing E2V1 really hard, I mean
really hard. I realise you guys can't see what's going on internally, but irrespective of what's taking
place in the market, there ar
e strong reasons to wait for the token launch.




Shane
08/12/2022 at 14:00:10 EDT
just watching the approved claims roll in. Looks really cool




Shane
08/12/2022 at 13:52:07 EDT
Game Activity Feed is LIT




Shane
06/10/2022 at 10:04:47 EDT
actually I donated 18K but that never makes it over to the other side. Sorry, I am in a meeting
going to exit chat here now .. going over some final game designs for the EcoSim player contract
​Shane
 06/10/2022 at 10:01:36 EDT
 we have a new game on E2 - spot the troll! This one is doing pretty good! I just popped in and saw
 this .. couldn't help not say something lol .. Into my next meeting now. Hope you're all keeping well!




Shane
05/29/2022 at 14:27:54 EDT
sycophant is one example and it will depend on the race a Player decides to work with for 'that
part' of the EcoSim / game. You guys will learn more about these, we probably chose the wrong
one to drop as a teaser in this
video! Almost 5am here - I am off to sleep now. Keep safe guys and don't get too hung up on
sycophant !




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:50:42 EDT
yes, validation for resources will and I am pushing hard for HB trading too




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:49:53 EDT
sorry guys - I need to get ready to leave. I will ask someone to screenshot some of the questions
here and I will try to include answers in the next candid video I make. All really good questions as
always and amazing sugg
estions! One thing I love about not committing to everything at once is that we can take on
feedback and mould things .. with the community! Keep safe guys!
Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:47:17 EDT
I believe we will have certain balancing mechanisms for the EcoSim but they will only work to a
certain extent .. it will be largely player determined which makes it interesting ..




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:46:17 EDT
transportation will be important for a reason




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:45:41 EDT
I agree but we had to release something quickly and with the other demands on the dev team right
now we did not have resources to pull from other things and make the validation performant. I
realise it just looks like a little
Yes / No data retrieval but we're working with over 14m data points around the world and it starts
to get taxing when performing checks on entire portfolios .. so unless you want the website to slow
down even further.. we de
cided to delay that and at least give the option to check per property for now (vs not only checking
on heatmap)




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:42:58 EDT
some things we are delaying for E2V1




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:42:33 EDT
this is something we will release more details on progressively. I think we have released some
hints to date




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:41:59 EDT
could you please message details to Liz or Kieran and ask them to follow up then let me know?




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:41:24 EDT
I cannot confirm that - I am not personally aware




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:41:05 EDT
lol - that would be giving a little too much away




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:40:47 EDT
thank you - we will get there step by step




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:40:12 EDT
I don't think so but I have not checked recently
Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:39:44 EDT
I speak a little about the benefits of validating a resource vs just receiving it in the candid video I
am uploading. Might want to check that out when it goes live. People will probably complain about
receiving resources automa
tically. As far as data to provide as proof - I will it will be a WIP. We cannot encompass all types of
data in one statement .. Players might find different ways to providing they have a given resource.
I have seen a video of so
meone already doing so and it looks pretty convincing to me ..




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:37:14 EDT
I have passed on to my EA as well to ensure I receive the answer




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:33:08 EDT
ok I have screenshots of those and will pass on to someone who will find out for me




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:31:27 EDT
ok I will go up to check - was I waiting on further details ?




Shane
05/28/2022 at 21:30:44 EDT
​yes it's 2 (decimals) for now, that is all we figured we needed initially and will test with that amount.
 It may be increased later at some point. I just wanted to say I am now aware of this apparent
 bugged tile purchase issues.
 We did not release a new country this week as far as I am aware so it sounds like Players might
 have found an area that was bugged without us knowing (sounds like! I am not aware of full details
 yet). I have asked to receiv
 e a personal report on this matter to understand what may have gone wrong and will be instructing
 the support team to act accordingly based on what the findings are. Sorry to those that may have
 been caught up in this if t
 here is in fact a bugged area, we will get to the bottom of it. I am uploading a candid video I
 recorded last night then I need to spend a bit of time with my family for the remaining part of the
 day here (Sunday coming up to m
 idday) - it's beautiful weather here .. sunny with blue skies all round ! Might take a drive to the
 country side :)) Hope you're all enjoying your weekend!




Shane
05/20/2022 at 22:09:02 EDT
anyway, enjoy your weekend guys. Look forward to catching up next time and hang in there




Shane
05/20/2022 at 22:08:22 EDT
I am sure you would. I sometimes pass your comments on when I skim through and they're like
"hey, that guy is pretty smart"




Shane
05/20/2022 at 22:07:52 EDT
bed time story? I think his voice has a certain type of soothing sound to it




Shane
05/20/2022 at 22:07:08 EDT
hey .. I had to write it. At least some of you could spend the time reading it lol
Shane
05/20/2022 at 22:06:26 EDT
I know .. more writing for people who don't like to read writing




Shane
05/20/2022 at 22:05:32 EDT
please read the 3 messages I posted above, they are not pinned yet




Shane
05/20/2022 at 22:02:37 EDT
you guys only see a fraction of what is out there .. because we're only showing locations on Player
owned properties, not vacant land




Shane
05/20/2022 at 22:00:52 EDT
either that or I am looking at confirming via the property details page. But will likely update dots
first, hopefully early next week. Please read the above message though, I do touch on that




Shane
05/20/2022 at 22:00:00 EDT
probably higher frequency (i.e 1 per tile even for larger properties, not 1 dot per property as it is
currently set to display)




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:59:36 EDT
yes, considering all of this. I have already requested it directly myself




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:59:16 EDT
yes, will be after. But the current heatmap is more or less confirming some of the higher range, we
have intentionally not mixed densities there




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:58:21 EDT
(not sure why that message someone is trying to post keeps getting auto deleted? I was trying to
read what is said)




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:58:01 EDT
take care guys, I really need to run .. my family is waiting for me.




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:57:13 EDT
well, you're welcome. Just another thing to look back on and remember I guess. At least we're
moving forward!




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:56:43 EDT
ahh our Discord has hit it's limit for pins (50) so I will let one of the MODs pin it. They will know the
best existing pin to remove and replace this one with




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:55:29 EDT
you're welcome. Let me see how to do that




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:54:23 EDT
nice to see things have settled down a little .. for now at least. Hope the above message helps a
few people to understand / consider a few things




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:53:18 EDT
**3/3** A couple of final things to consider. All properties will have some kind of resource on them
in the end, they will all have purpose inside the EcoSim. The EcoSim will likely function on supply
and demand, so who kno
ws which resources might be in demand at any given time – it will be very interesting to see how
this part plays out long term. Once Player validation is complete we will be looking at other ways of
distributing certain types o
f resources which may be based on other real world data (not going into details on this now).
Remember, the EcoSim, while important, is one part of our metaverse, it just happens to be the
main point of focus right now so
people are emotionally charged about it.. there are many other things to come so hang in there
and let us build toward those other things without bringing everyone down. I think the next vlog
should perhaps focus on somet
hing less resource related.. I need to move on with the day, sorry for any typos I have not had a
chance to review the above and my apologies if I have not addressed something you were not
happy with, we will continue to
review and improve as always. Hope you all have a safe and enjoyable weekend!
​Shane
 05/20/2022 at 21:53:03 EDT
 **2/3** - I considered setting up an email helpline for those in emotional distress, but I realised it
 will just get trolled and a few people will ruin opportunities for others not to mention themselves.
 But the bottom line is the valid
 ation system is part of the process and we have been talking about it for some time now.
 Validation will be an option if you don’t end up with the resource you expected to have. If I were
 you, I would be hoping the resource d
 oesn’t show up on an obvious location, it will then be easier for you to prove and will be validated
 if it is accurate, you may even end up with a higher concentrated resource at the end of it…I guess
 now we will have Players
 complaining if it does show up. But as I said, we still have more datasets to release for Gold in
 particular, so be careful what you are wishing for. - Resources are not being introduced to make
 people rich, they are being intr
 oduced as a core utility for our metaverse platform and their core purpose is to allow Players to
 replicate resources found on the land they own and build things. Their value is speculative and
 sure, we expect there will be a
 value slowly determined when Players trade and such .. but they are first and foremost being
 introduced as a core utility to play the Earth 2 EcoSim and build things. - I realise we are only
 showing confirmed resource locati
 ons on the heatmap right now and it may be time consuming for Players to go through and find the
 properties they own which have confirmed resources on them. By all means, if you want to get
 your Jewels loaded onto co
nfirmed properties that little bit earlier then please do so, otherwise we will be releasing an update,
I believe over the next few weeks and ideally before the resource validation goes live, that
confirms which resources you h
ave on the property details page. For now, I suggest loading the property you think may have
resources on the map view, zoom out and in slowly (so the flags disappear) and view the heatmap
dots, even from a distance. It
will provide a good indication as to whether or not that property has a confirmed resource. - As
mentioned, this is a test period and we have already identified an issue with our automated
heatmap updating system for resour
ce locations. This means it may take a little longer for newly purchased properties to show whether
they have Gold or Oil on them, until them we will be looking to process the data manually every 24
hours (though it may be
Monday before this cycle kicks in). We hope to get the automated system fixed some time next
week which will then refresh every 24 hours or less. I am sure there are probably some other
issues that Players are experien
cing or not happy with and I have missed those but I wanted to write out the above to provide at
least some form of update for you all. Remember, this was the first time the resource datasets
went live so as usual, our team
and QA will continue to monitor things and fix according.




Shane
05/20/2022 at 21:52:51 EDT
**1/3** Ok I can see there are a few people emotionally distressed about the first dataset of
resource locations they see on the map so I will try to clear up a few things here quickly (funny
how this always seems to happen o
n a Saturday morning for me!). Guys .. we have released a heatmap for the first two resources and
have clearly stated there is more coming, even for these particular resources. That was the
purpose for the announcement
and the fact we listed 10 points + other details in the Earth 2 News section on the website. -
Remember, resources you can see on the heatmap are PROPERTIES with resources, not EVERY
RESOURCE LOCATION! I kno
w people don’t like to read things but we clearly stated this. And even this highly concentrated
level currently being displayed on the heatmap is only showing a fraction of Gold and Oil locations,
the rest are still hidden. - We
have not released the binary data on on the property details page yet, only via the heatmap to give
you guys something to check, look at. It does not mean these are the only resources that will ever
come into Earth 2! You
may even have Gold or Oil on your property but you don’t realise because the dots are difficult to
make out on larger properties, which brings me to the next point: - I agree, the Gold and Oil ‘dots’
on the heatmap are in
many cases difficult to see when you zoom right in and they only show one dot per property. That
is why single tile properties grouped together have a brighter glow, but this means nothing apart
from the fact we show one
dot per property. It is simply more difficult to see the dot on larger properties. I am looking at ways
we can update to show the dots on every tile irrespective of the property size to make it a little
easier for people to spot and
less confusing. - We specifically stated we were releasing this heatmap and will monitor results
over 2 weeks, checking it live on the production server, monitor feedback etc. The heatmaps are
limited and show areas of hig
h concentration of that resource. We didn’t want to release areas that still have Gold / Oil but in
lower frequency as Players would not yet have any way of distinguishing between the various
densities. - On top of this, we ha
ve been very clear that there will be a validation process available to every Player which will allow
them the freedom to claim resources they believe they have on their property but have not yet
been detected / assigned. Im
agine if we had no plans for this process? I knew that irrelevant of what we released, some would
be upset, which is understandable, so we planned for this. You need to remember, the EcoSim is
a game, there will be ways
to strategise but there will also be times some Players get lucky in different ways. In this case,
some Players got lucky having their resource validated early and not needing to submit a
validation request, yet they lose a cha
nce to collaborate with other players and receive bonuses in doing so later. - Yes, some resources
appeared in locations you might not have expected but also yes, there are reasons for that. I
cannot sit here and justify the l
ogic for each and every occurrence but again, the EcoSim is a game and there may be curve balls
from time to time, sometimes they may help you and sometimes they may not. Be happy for those
who got lucky and focus
on your own journey. Yes, some major gold mines are not confirming Player owned properties on
the heatmap, yet, there may be a reason for that. Maybe there is not as much gold there as you
thought or maybe the locati
on is not exactly where you thought would be. You will still have a chance to validate this and we
still have more data to release so just sit tight, we have bases covered.




Shane
05/01/2022 at 19:34:48 EDT
sorry guys - seems we need to check one of the images. I don't edit my videos and Dairk pointed
out it may have a screenshot from another project which is something we shouldn't be doing. I will
be pinging the person who
edits the video to confirm and will re-release once they have reviewed / removed content
especially if it's from another project. Not sure how they would have happened




Shane
04/29/2022 at 17:49:41 EDT
go back to sleep
Shane
04/29/2022 at 17:49:07 EDT
hope you guys have a good, safe weekend




Shane
04/29/2022 at 17:48:56 EDT
hello local




Shane
04/29/2022 at 17:48:39 EDT
morning everyone. I realise some think this is important, some not so, but the bottom line is we
should try to resolve it fairly, even if it was just a good gesture bonus for Earth2Day. Was not very
happy to wake up to this .. a
nyway, I need to get back to focusing on this as I'm due to fly out today again so please excuse
me




Shane
04/29/2022 at 17:46:00 EDT
you see into my life lol




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:20:00 EDT
bear with us .. one day you'll have too much to do. Let us handle it step by step.




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:19:09 EDT
yes I have another meeting in 10 mins and have to grab something to eat first! Nice to see you all,
keep safe and have a good day ahead everyone




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:18:19 EDT
I have wanted to do that from the beginning




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:18:05 EDT
one of the many things we are actively working on. So many things we're working on in parallel ..
does my head in ..




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:17:45 EDT
they are ready I heard but we need to include then in an announcement so everyone has fair time
to challenge




Shane
​ 04/27/2022 at 22:17:07 EDT
 well at least one video .. maybe another personal candid one from me but I recorded it when I was
 super tired so didn't present too well
Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:15:36 EDT
will try to drop a couple videos this weekend, maybe the next vlog




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:15:10 EDT
it is coming in the right way




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:14:27 EDT
shhh




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:13:14 EDT
I think they said they are going to publish it on their website - not sure when though




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:12:56 EDT
I'm trying .. I'm not fond of public speaking lol .. trying to adapt.




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:12:08 EDT
thank you




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:11:57 EDT
I find it much easier answering interesting questions lol




Shane
04/27/2022 at 22:11:28 EDT
hey guys - thanks very much for dropping in on the event. Hope everyone enjoyed it. I would stop
and chat but I have another meeting starting soon




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:21:30 EDT
keep safe guys and have a good day




Shane

04/11/2022 at 12:21:16 EDT
he would appreciate that message .. 2am here and I just got off a 2 hour conference call with NYC
with him lol




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:20:40 EDT
I have to get going guys, sorry, I know there are many questions. Would be good to have a list
somewhere that I can look at and I'll try to make videos about one or a few questions when I have
the chance
Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:19:52 EDT
Dan is just about as busy as I am .. and I dump more on him every day lol




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:19:40 EDT
first 8 to start then more will be introduced later




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:19:12 EDT
probably a couple weeks at the moment. Each application is grouped and reviewed




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:18:34 EDT
I would say just send an application - what harm can it do ?




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:18:08 EDT
ok. I thought this might be the latest focus from those who try to come up with ways to explain
'how we're misleading and tricking' everyone. Certainly sounds like something they would come up
with but my apologies if I wa
s wrong




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:17:14 EDT
no




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:16:23 EDT
I can't give you an exact date sorry but we would like this to happen sooner than later obviously. I
don't want to push my team too hard




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:15:50 EDT
trust me, this is something the team has been aware about for a long time and we're considering
the best approach to this. We had to get the main tech working correctly first but we are aware
and we want to find a good sol
ution. That is all I can share for now
​Shane
 04/11/2022 at 12:14:25 EDT
 we are focused on building products and adding utility and fun to E2.. we believe if we do that then
 the rest will fall into place and give more purpose to Essence




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:13:37 EDT
this is a brilliant idea. The E2 team are already overworked .. we have so much on our plate.
Anything you guys in the community want to suggest and work on together, as a group, is greatly
appreciated. It's nice to have yo
u all more involved




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:12:06 EDT
or won't ..
Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:12:01 EDT
you know I can't tell you that lol




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:11:44 EDT
it will be on that specific location. I can't promise for adjoining areas (if those do not have that
resource)




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:10:58 EDT
guys I am on a bad keyboard and I need to sleep shortly. I'll try to answer a couple more existing
questions




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:10:28 EDT
I have an interesting idea for that. Have been working on it with the team .. it's coming




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:10:03 EDT
I can't sorry .. there is a big prize for that one and the player that solves it will know what to do




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:09:34 EDT
stake our claim etc..




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:09:27 EDT
we want to show something else impressive when Essence launches




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:09:11 EDT
yes, there will be more candid talks for sure. And other things .. features, news etc




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:08:25 EDT
please email jobs@earth2.io - sounds good




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:08:00 EDT
thank you. I'm glad some can appreciate how interesting this tech is




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:07:14 EDT
there are many Players who want to avoid the drama. We have never emailed out to our
hundreds of thousands of Players .. we will do that when bigger things come, so doesn't really
surprise me. Many bought land in E2
for the long haul and just forget about it for a while and let us build our thing




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:05:30 EDT
I am not sure this is on the feature list just yet. I know I asked for no Players to be charged any
ongoing EPL registration fees until they become more operational. So the initial fee was like a
reserve fee I guess




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:03:05 EDT
love it - but let's build the foundations for it all first .. we're building that in a way where any future
tech could come in and interact




Shane
04/11/2022 at 12:02:13 EDT
we're not using Mapbox in any way, shape or form in the tech we've built and demoed (the Distant
Terrain Shader). It has nothing to do with Mapbox technology. Our team built what you saw. Sorry
to shut down this new att
empt at misleading people into thinking we're not capable of building this tech




Shane
04/11/2022 at 00:10:36 EDT
hello all. Glad that many enjoyed the premier earlier today! I will drop in later today to read
comments around that time but I heard that there was a lot of support and people enjoyed it.
Thanks very much for your support.




Shane
04/10/2022 at 14:56:50 EDT
night guys - enjoy




Shane
04/10/2022 at 14:56:30 EDT
they are too big a target right now. We need to finish handling other issues first and then I hope
more of the talent on the team can be public (if they want to)
​Shane
 04/10/2022 at 14:55:45 EDT
 my heart is with you guys when it premiers. As long term E2 supporters, I really hope you all felt
 what I felt when I watched the final version. Make sure you also watch it in 4K later (streaming
 sometime sucks .. unless it's str
 eaming on E2 ..)




Shane
04/10/2022 at 14:53:58 EDT
I think they will find the options extremely accommodating ..




Shane
04/10/2022 at 14:53:30 EDT
I'm not sure. Please ask support. If I knew I would try to answer




Shane
04/10/2022 at 14:52:22 EDT
trust the process my friend
Shane
04/10/2022 at 14:51:48 EDT
not sure I can take anything more huge right now. I have too much on my plate lol




Shane
04/10/2022 at 14:51:24 EDT
hey guys. We need more to show when Essence launches ! This video will show more than
enough to prove our team is building this tech though and that we can build a lot more .. I wish I
could watch it with everyone but I'
ve been so over worked I need to get what little sleep I can. I have a full day ahead of me and it's
5am Monday morning .. and still yet to sleep. Hopefully I'm on a different schedule for the next one
.. I really miss enjoying th
ese moments together. I read through the entire discord for the premier the other day, wish I was
there .. and glad so many enjoyed that video too. I hope you all enjoy and we will have more to
show when Essence launche
s ... just to give Essence a bit of a bump for you all




Shane
04/09/2022 at 14:41:31 EDT
night guys - almost 5am Sunday morning here and I have to wake up in a few hours. Keep safe




Shane
04/09/2022 at 14:41:01 EDT
E2 video is still on schedule for this weekend. PM Sunday US time (I usually refer to US or
European time .. I spend most of my time on conference calls with those places)




Shane
04/09/2022 at 14:39:56 EDT
thanks Drew. Just trying to share thoughts when I have them. Might relevant to new people or
whoever wants to listen I guess




Shane
04/09/2022 at 14:39:07 EDT
so damn busy ..




Shane
04/09/2022 at 14:38:59 EDT
I am driving home and going to bed now




Shane
04/09/2022 at 14:38:43 EDT




IMG_6004.mov
5.34MB




Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:07:51 EDT
sorry guys I have to get back to work. Under the pump ..
Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:07:45 EDT
this weekend




Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:07:42 EDT
no date.




Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:07:01 EDT
confirmed winners won't be taken away




Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:06:43 EDT
this is only for that mistaken posted for eggs 5 & 6. We didn't accidentally post images other times




Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:06:08 EDT
don't worry. We are working on something. I couldn't let these scam videos go on forever without
being addressed. They had a choice and they made their decision




Shane
​ 04/08/2022 at 08:05:09 EDT
 I understand but it's obvious that I posted an image that allowed our team to know where the eggs
 were hidden at a later date. I just posted the wrong image. I will discuss this with the team. I don't
 think we can award top pri
 zes but maybe I will look at the E$100 at least .. leave it with me




Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:03:39 EDT
thank you so much. Captured




Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:02:36 EDT
we are building a system for roads on the ground, testing it .. it's complicated. We may also have
holographic roads (looking at that concept too). Will leave it at that, I am not confirming 100% with
this response




Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:01:16 EDT
I am not aware of this ?




Shane
04/08/2022 at 08:00:25 EDT
there is no way I am against valid criticism. I welcome valid criticism. In fact, I had our team review
each negative video put out against us to see what we could learn from it and improve. And we did
change some things fro
m that feedback. But there's a big difference between valid criticism and one way traffic to try and
destroy a project and anyone else who (our community) shares the same vision as that project. A
BIG difference .. I gave the
se guys a chance to show first hand that they were interested in constructive criticism and we all
got to see what they did with that chance .. they doubled down with their misleading information to
the point they now mislead
over 1m people into thinking a dev won a challenge for $10K. I don't do things without calculating
first. We should welcome every response video they make right now .. exactly what I expected
them to do. There are things
happening in the background now. Let's just focus on the good things to come for the rest of 2022




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:30:46 EDT
night guys - or good day. Hope you all have a good day ahead and keep safe




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:30:22 EDT
yikes .. it's 4:30am and I have a 7:30 am meeting




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:30:08 EDT
yeah I need to get going anyway. I was actually supposed to leave 1 hour ago




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:29:46 EDT
exactly




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:29:16 EDT
we will handle the real gold mines first and check the data before we make those decisions




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:28:58 EDT
definitely not. I am boring in this sense guys .. I played games to get high .. very competitive ..




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:28:32 EDT
all tiles will have some ability to generate resources. This will allow trade




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:28:03 EDT
I give accurate answers because I know what we are doing. I won't answer something I am unsure
of or if I do I will always say I'm not 100% sure




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:27:06 EDT
not a stoner. Was allergic .. found that out as a teenager lol




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:26:41 EDT
not yet
Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:26:22 EDT
does not work like that. You can read our news article, there are more details there. Basically we
will allow X number of validators per request. Those validators can be rewarded or penalised for
correct / incorrect validations
. Our internal system will review and have final say




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:24:51 EDT
we have multiple sources




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:24:40 EDT
actually, sounds good lol .. I like Monkey's Shoulder




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:24:12 EDT
the exact location
​Shane
 04/07/2022 at 14:24:08 EDT
 on the exact gold mine at first




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:23:56 EDT
we have mapped data already and players will have a chance to challenge if they don't receive the
resources they expected. From there exact figures will be assigned based on different data
sources




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:22:59 EDT
to start with, yes. We need to fulfil that promise to our Players




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:22:42 EDT
ok - to entertain your question. I would prefer whisky or just beer.




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:21:40 EDT
no




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:21:34 EDT
the first period will be focused on real world resource locations reflected on land inside Earth 2 -
we are fulfilling that promise




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:20:54 EDT
thank you. Your message means a lot to me. It's frustrating to be accused of something on such a
public stage, at scale, when you're trying to do the right thing. And then when you do something
good, or show progress, or
prove them wrong, they double down. But hey, we're doing the right thing, we're building the right
thing at the right time and we'll have the last laugh. Appreciate your message
Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:19:23 EDT
ok I will forward that again




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:18:54 EDT
I honestly rarely drink .. rarely .. like I can't remember the last time I was drunk. I grew up with a lot
of alcohol consumption around me so tend not to drink very much. That said .. when I do let my
hair down . .. look out




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:17:25 EDT
yes I am aware of this. And they delete comments on their videos. Was quite funny actually .. I
heard about this and tried it and it was true! They literally delete comments, then accuse others of
deleting comments. Maybe w
e should look into this more .. ty




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:15:36 EDT
yes I have done so for 99% I think




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:13:55 EDT
there is an updated version coming. We have been focusing on something else for HBs because
we plan to open the HB marketplace soon where players can start selling their creations. So there
was something else we ne
eded to do first, but I can tell you team members are focused on that full time re HBs right now




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:12:39 EDT
https://earth2.io/updates is what we've been working on in the back ground when building tech for
the 3D world. Please feel free to copy in a month. I won't entertain stupid questions seriously, sorry




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:11:38 EDT
nice !




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:11:01 EDT
we have removed many insulting things like that over time




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:10:43 EDT
you'll need to wait for the full paper. I might make a video closer to that time. It would give too
much away to say it now and might cause some fomo .. which I don't want to go into now




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:09:11 EDT
because we didn't hire you. Was our biggest mistake
Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:08:41 EDT
always. I am not sure who will think they are big though




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:08:16 EDT
I came up with it and I thought it wouldn't be that special. I mean it's not really that special I guess
but the feedback I received from professionals was very positive and the simplicity / effectiveness
of it seems to be spot on ..
so let's see




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:07:24 EDT
​this year will be much bigger




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:06:56 EDT
haha I'm so sorry




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:06:37 EDT
not sure on the full tech tree - that is more game design. But we might include it. And there will be
a tech tree and it will expand




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:05:59 EDT
for real ..




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:05:33 EDT
please ask someone to do it then. We're certainly successful .. surely many will be making what
we have achieved in a month then and capitalising on that success .. go go go




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:04:55 EDT
too funny




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:04:22 EDT
Jewels do and will have future value in the game. It's like anything .. you make a decision at that
point in time. We can't foresee everything




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:03:17 EDT
they have said that from day 1. I'm still here. Do you think I'd be putting my face out everywhere
and publicly challenging scam accusers if this were a scam? I would literally be laying low and
trying not to draw attention
..people overlook the most simple things sometimes
Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:01:53 EDT
yes, there will be decimals (fractions) of Essence coming. I think I mentioned this in a youtube
video I published on my personal youtube recently (unless I dreamt it)




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:00:40 EDT
ok sounds good




Shane
04/07/2022 at 14:00:10 EDT
and btw - what we have created in this 3D world is much more impressive than the close up terrain
we showed last year. It may not look as flash close up right now, but the tech is MUCH more
impressive




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:59:10 EDT
we need to bring those back in a more structured way. Sorry, they will return later




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:58:47 EDT
oh cool! Thanks for letting me know. I don't really check




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:58:21 EDT
that's because we've been well .. creating a digital planet earth. I will drop a video on why we don't
have 3D game play maybe tomorrow




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:57:34 EDT
I should probably do a tweet on this




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:57:21 EDT
Punk rock .. but I can listen to country




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:57:06 EDT
entire new site will be dark themed




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:56:28 EDT
I don't think it's the main thing. For example, all of the due diligence they can do on Earth 2 (or
claim to have done), they focus on things like what one of our devs wrote in chat without
permission .. I mean not even publishe
d under E2. One of our devs mentioned in Discord chat that we were aiming for globe size with
Red Dead Redemption graphics. . and look how much they focus on that? These guys have one
thing on their mind, paint E2 i

n the most negative light as possible. No biased approach whatsoever. Also - we will be rolling out
E2 in steps. Of course we want big, huge, the size of the Earth 2. But we're working on it in steps.
That also never gets portr
ayed so I suppose you're getting your details from a bunch of youtubers who hate our project and
this is a clear example of how they have influenced so many people
Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:53:11 EDT
email please. We have eyes on that email address




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:52:46 EDT
you have no idea
​Shane
 04/07/2022 at 13:52:25 EDT
 let me copy paste : "I have learned that the web team removed several pieces of content from the
 site as a part of a refresh ahead of our new VP of Marketing joining next week. " Their global VP
 for customer engagement a
 nd another senior member of their map team have recently requested meetings with me to
 discuss Earth 2 strategy and public awareness ... I think they might be on a panel I was invited to
 next month as well (or maybe it's
 later this month)




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:49:46 EDT
next, next, next .. maybe lol. I have to digest it all myself. I just know it was very complicated and
very cool




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:49:09 EDT
you're welcome




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:48:18 EDT
hell no ..




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:48:10 EDT
much too long to explain today I'm sorry. But the tech we are demoing this weekend is our distant
terrain system. That is where we needed to start and we're already working on bridging it to a
more detailed close up engine




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:47:01 EDT
but I can say you will learn how and our team came up with some awesome solutions for this




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:46:35 EDT
oh boy .. that is too long to answer right now




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:46:16 EDT

we should let the community decide (if we do .. it had better be good .. I don't like second best lol)




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:45:28 EDT
I do ask for reviews. The CMs and MODs spend their time moderating this channel and I believe
they follow the rules quite closely. We are constantly reviewing things but I cannot stand here and
say they are doing a bad jo
b. I do ask for reviews when I hear things




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:43:57 EDT
yes, I would think so most certainly




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:43:17 EDT
not sure what you mean? They are all over the world .. mostly in Europe. Is that what you mean ?




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:42:45 EDT
but I am not 100% sure




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:42:41 EDT
when we have a price for Essence (i.e an external trading price) I believe we intend to use that to
make things more cost effective in game




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:41:26 EDT
ahh - so many questions. I am not sure I can answer them all today and I don't want to pick ones
of others. I was in the middle of something and thought I would respond to that comment above as
it provided details for the
E2 community in general




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:40:02 EDT
our lead Artistic Lead (also not on the team page) is very experienced in this area, always
considering colour blind, disabilities. Really experiences and talented guy. I also have meetings
with someone in Canada for somethi
ng related to hearing impaired but I don't know the full details yet (have not met yet, so busy). But
yes, long term I believe there will be technology that helps in that area and hope can be used in
Earth 2. We're building a pla
tform and future hardware tech will simply compliment the foundation we are building .. if that
makes sense




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:37:26 EDT
it has very high priority, but other things like Resources and Resource validation do as well. We're
working on a LOT of things .. the 3D world is also huge .. a lot of focus .. EcoSim, EcoSim
buildings, artwork, 3D models,
man .. it's endless and there is a whole lot more ..




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:36:10 EDT
when we have our social media app we will look to add more location based / AR stuff




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:35:48 EDT
of course lol




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:35:42 EDT
​I have already requested that note be updated from Support




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:35:25 EDT
it will likely be a way off, probably inside holodecks first, but the open world will likely support it
later. I would say yes, very likely, long term (long term)




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:34:34 EDT
thank you so much




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:34:20 EDT
when the 3D world goes live we will be introducing more ways to get Jewels




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:33:31 EDT
I understand this but we have so many things we're working on, stopping to update that would
mean delays in Essence trading as a token, delays in Resources and many other things. We are
hiring more devs but it become
s very complicated when working on numerous features in parallel. I know it sounds easy but we
have built a very intricate deployment system and we need time to test a lot before making those
changes. I 100% assure you
it has a ticket and it's not forgotten




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:30:57 EDT
I have reported this to our COO already and asked them to add it back on the marketplace




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:30:05 EDT
ok - so if I wasn't so busy with Earth 2, (and if I didn't have my wife watching over my shoulder)
Star Citizen would probably be one of my dream games .. I just love the concept and it looks
amazing. I think their team has wo
rked through a lot of difficult times in the past yet they have proven themselves long term .. really
cool concept and game




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:28:41 EDT
I'm with you .. in fact I might make a little video on this soon. It might not 100% pass as PvP .. but
in a way it will and it will come this year. The sooner the better. Will be simple but fun




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:27:13 EDT
I asked Dan to work it into my schedule
Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:26:59 EDT
not yet unfortunately. We are working on so many things in parallel and waiting for this Social
Media Playbook thing from another company to be completed.




Shane
04/07/2022 at 13:24:56 EDT
We will be releasing an updated landing page over the next few months and videos will help too. I
started to share candid videos on thoughts I have as well that hopefully fill in pieces of the puzzle
for people. I will try to prov
ide a quick answer on this anyway, for the Earth 2 community as well, I might even make a video
on this perhaps too at a later date. When I launched Earth 2 my core goal was develop purpose
and utility for virtual land. I th
ought I had an 18 month runway minimum before people even started taking notice on what we
were up to. It went viral after 4 weeks and then hyper viral after 6 weeks, after that time it was just
about keeping the servers on
line and stopping the project from crashing. My long term goal has always been to add utility to
land so that Player owned land becomes an integral part to building and facilitating almost
everything inside of Earth 2. I introdu
ced Essence early to benefit Players who believed in the project and bought land and it currently
has a very simple game loop. Buy land, build a mentar, detect E-ther on your land and convert it to
Essence (daily). That is sti
ll how it works today, but will change soon making it more difficult to convert into Essence and as
the 3D world launches there will be even more game loops involved (enter the EcoSim Player)
making it more difficult or time
consuming to get Essence. Some Players are focused on the short term gain, flipping properties,
Jewels etc.. but I am looking long term. So Essence will become a token over the next few months
and will have a Player / e
xternal trade determined price (that has nothing to do with Earth 2). Every existing tile on Earth 2
when that happens will have the guaranteed ability to harvest E-ther and produce Essence via
game play over time (pursuant
to the tokenomics system yet to be released). As the external price of Essence is traded, there is
obvious value in that. Land will also be able to produce resources and much more in the future, so
it doesn’t even stop with
Essence (yes, my long term goal to add more purpose and utility to land). The penny hasn’t
dropped yet for many outsiders, they just think (or hear) it’s a scam and they believe stories
pushed to them from people who only
want to capitalise at the expense of our brand name because they know it is a highly searched
project and they feel we are easy pickings to call a scam and make some $ for themselves.
Ironically they are smashing probab
ly the only real Metaverse chance that doesn’t have VC or corporate world influence. I’d like to see
them in the same position as I was and turn down those opportunities, I doubt many would do that
.. they say they would tu
rn them down but let’s see what they do when the actually opportunity is there. Anyway, then Earth
2 and the Players become completely aligned, of course we will generate revenue from new land
sales, some in game pur
chases and transaction fees on Player owned or created content, to keep building Earth 2 etc. But
the biggest aligned effort I believe will be on Essence, we will want to create more Utility for
Essence which in turn will bene
fit the Players and in turn will benefit the platform which in turn wants to create more Utility for
Essence .. you see. Anyway, just a few thoughts for everyone to read through.




Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:35:02 EDT
yes - that will still go ahead as planned




Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:34:44 EDT
maybe - but Essence is the core utility




Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:34:30 EDT
ok back to work for me.
Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:33:52 EDT
I certainly hope so .. just don't be the bitcoin pizza guy just yet ..




Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:33:28 EDT
we are




Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:33:18 EDT
nothing stable yet but it will roll out in parts (so not all at once). First will probably be binary gold /
oil (yes / no) not exact amounts
​Shane
 04/07/2022 at 11:32:32 EDT
 I have asked the team to keep on top of that. I am not sure where they are up to




Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:32:01 EDT
many T1 properties that are owned by other players have promised Essence. We did that to
benefit the Player as much as the people who want to secure guaranteed Essence




Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:31:22 EDT
please contact support and they will help you. Some banks have issues as they use older systems
and don't support credit card payments.




Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:29:24 EDT
no Essence fractions just yet




Shane
04/07/2022 at 11:28:54 EDT
hey guys. I was told by development that it will probably roll out progressively over the next 12hrs+
so sit tight




Shane
04/06/2022 at 05:06:05 EDT
Interesting fun fact : Callum's group have been emailing the "creator" of the dev's work I
showcased in my video (the footage shown demonstrating past work our dev was solely
responsible for). It still hasn't dawned on the
m that it's the same developer that have been criticising for the Dev Vlog #1 video .. they are
literally emailing him letting him know that Earth 2 "stole" footage of his work .. beyond words ..




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:39:06 EDT
I will. People can suggest on my twitter




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:38:53 EDT
ok I gotta get back to work. People are chasing me lol I love dropping in here .. Thanks guys and
keep safe
Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:37:26 EDT
no hints sorry .. the person who solves it will know what to do




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:36:25 EDT
funny you mention that .. I'll make a note to mention something in my next candid video




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:35:47 EDT
good question. I think you might have misunderstood what we said in the dev vlog. We were
pointing out how that was an issue but we have already worked out ways to solve most of those
issues using our own tech. I will s
ave that website URL but we were pointing that out to be an issue that is difficult to solve
(because we want E2 to be like it was before man influenced it, without man made structures) and
that our solution worked out a way
to solve a big part of that already. Thanks for sharing though and I am always interested in ways
we can improve our system and make it better long term




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:32:19 EDT
haha I am flattered .. but I'd probably break the camera lens




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:32:01 EDT
sorry - no more clues on that one




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:31:43 EDT
yes, I want to provide options for things like this. You know, one thing I have not done in the past
is show concept artwork .. normally I like to focus on showing things how they will appear in game
etc. But maybe we should
start showing some concept artwork .. I think it will get people excited




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:30:33 EDT
yes I do travel there often




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:30:28 EDT
haha




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:29:54 EDT
we have plans long term - but these are big things and we have to set the foundations first. I have
good contacts in this space, extremely good contacts and good people. They are not listed on the
team page




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:29:07 EDT
probably the same that happened on Twitter with handles .. but that depends when it catches up ..
I want to decentralise all of these things .. so might be interesting to see what happens after that
Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:27:44 EDT
I think people have missed the point here. Callum called him an amateur / nothing source / and
that he was pulling the wool over my eyes. I showed what he created in the past as a point of
reference to the person Callum is
calling out as a noob dev just working out how to build a game ..
​Shane
 04/06/2022 at 02:26:38 EDT
 I can't say IF or when sorry ..




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:26:04 EDT
let's say I didn't make any close friends in that circle ..




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:25:15 EDT
no, they have not been involved for some time now.




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:24:56 EDT
I have messaged that directly to our COO and asked him to ensure there is a ticket for it, if not, he
needs to create one and have it validated by QA. They will get to it




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:23:25 EDT
just message support, they will monitor and help you out. Our accounting team are really good.
They will ensure you're paid, some banks just have issues




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:22:46 EDT
that's INSANE ! LOL




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:21:48 EDT
which ones? We are always looking for new talent




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:20:35 EDT
thank you. If you want a traditional corporate suit to create the foundations of your metaverse there
are already some existing options




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:19:46 EDT
I asked the team on this




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:18:26 EDT
I like EVERYTHING .. I can listen to Mozart for hours on end, then rock, grunge, punk rock, rap,
old classics .. I love music. I always wanted to learn piano as a child but my family could never
afford it so as an adult I taught
myself to play. Playing Beethoven, Chopin, Mozart .. it was like a dream come true. I would
memorise the notes as I can't read and play at the same time. Two of my favourites I taught
myself to play were Moonlight Sonata
Movement 3 and Fur Elise was the first I learned, I had wanted to play that from a kid




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:14:49 EDT
I have a big multinational company working on revamping our product. I want it to be something
for the people too .. let's see what happens




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:14:07 EDT
let them come. They are only supporting what I said. They have a place in this world to keep their
followers away from benefiting on Earth 2. Obviously their followers get a laugh from watching
their videos and make thems
elves feel good for putting someone else down, but long term what else will they get? We will have
the last laugh .. as I said, it's entertaining already knowing how our clowns are




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:12:43 EDT
it's comical




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:12:08 EDT
social media app and some other commitments I was involved with




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:11:49 EDT
I have plans




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:11:20 EDT
thank you. And thanks for Modding these past couple weeks. Really appreciate it




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:10:47 EDT
I have actually thought about that .. and joint ownership of properties. But we have so much on
our plate right now those are future features




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:10:00 EDT
we already have a grid. This was FREAKING DIFFICULT! We didn't even add that to the
challenge for Callum. Replicating the grid accurately in our own 3D world all over again was hard ..
super proud of my team for the w
ork they've done there




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:08:55 EDT
Brisbane Broncos .. since I was a child. They are not doing so well the past couple of games




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:08:18 EDT
​ok - I will make a note to add something in.




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:07:50 EDT
I actually thought Callum might just admit defeat, clearly he had no idea what he was accepting in
the challenge. He literally accepted it 15 mins after I posted on my twitter, that's just enough time
to watch the video ONCE ..
(and btw, people saying I lied on the twitter thing .. my goodness .. the world has different time
zones .. we even showed the time zone we took the screenshots in .. some people just choose to
ignore). But yeah, Callum clai
med he would admit when he was wrong, yet he's proven he won't and he'll just double down
choosing to try and preserve his credibility vs admit he stuffed up.




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:05:06 EDT
yes, we should be sure to point that out. But even if we do, they won't listen and will choose to
ignore




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:04:32 EDT
one tile properties .. I think I mentioned something on those before. Larger properties will have
advantage in the EcoSim overall but I'm sure one tile properties will still have some kind of
purpose




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:03:43 EDT
yes, we've never paid anyone to talk about the positive things with regards to E2 but a new
company we're working with is going to help us on this. They're a massive firm, very professional
so hopefully will help us out




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:02:30 EDT
I will make a note, though I never get time to watch any TV .. I literally watch one rugby game per
week and that's recorded and I usually get to watch it about 4 days after I recorded it lol .. have to
avoid news during that tim
e




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:00:35 EDT
seriously .. completely over their head .. sigh ...




Shane
04/06/2022 at 02:00:15 EDT
that's awesome to hear KODY




Shane
04/06/2022 at 01:59:09 EDT
hey guys. I'm glad everyone enjoyed the video and I hope it removed a burden from everyone's
shoulders. I know it did for me. They will continue to grasp at straws and create more videos but
none of it feels so relevant an
ymore, we can see them for who they are and there is always that video I created picking Callum
to pieces and showing how they operate. It can be referenced any time in the future. There are
also other reasons for doing
what I did, I know some don't understand, but I'm glad people also saw my passion for Earth 2 and
that I not only stood up for my team but also for my community and what I believe in .. and I did
this against a much larger
group with over a million followers collectively. We will have the last laugh. Thank you for the
support and the messages, I read through them all and laughed, and cried (someone said they
cried when they watched the foot
age .. well I cried when I watched the footage you'll see this weekend .. of course it's a demo of
our distant terrain technology, but many will understand how significant it is. We use Google Earth
(a computer program that re
nders a 3D representation of the planet Earth based on satellite imagery - obviously created by
one of the biggest and most innovative software companies in the world), we compare ours with
Google Earth through the vide
o to demonstrate how accurate our technology is and how fast it loads in comparison. This is an
amazing platform we're setting to build Earth 2, those who understand tech will realise this and
now, no matter what the YT'er
s (those who choose to continue) shoot back at us, it just doesn't seem relevant anymore .. it's
obvious they are incapable of admitting anything positive about Earth 2 and will continue grasping
at straws and distorting the tr
uth to fit their own agenda. Thanks again for the support and I'm looking forward to the rest of
2022 together and beyond.




Shane
04/05/2022 at 15:52:38 EDT
that's a really good idea and I will make a note. We do have plans to educate people about real
world issues inside of E2 and this is a great example of how we could do something like that




Shane
04/05/2022 at 14:51:09 EDT
good night guys. I hope you all have a good day ahead and enjoy the Callum response video. If
anyone goes into watching that video without tunnel vision / blinkers on it would be difficult to
ignore the evidence I provide. Let
's look forward to bigger and better things moving forward starting with a peek on Sunday then
leading up to other releases through Q2 and then the Essence token :))




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:49:59 EDT
sorry - please ask next time. I am juggling here and trying to post a video + chat in 3 places




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:49:28 EDT
if you remember we had not really released any details before that. SO it was just a date we
released something on. The 2s will align for E2 throughout 2022




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:45:58 EDT
we will ramp up some more publicity leading up to the launch, yes




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:45:38 EDT
that's why we created the resource validation initiative .. for that very reason. If you can prove it
then you should be ok




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:42:48 EDT
all is fine. We just want to release closed to when the token launches
Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:40:09 EDT
That's awesome !




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:39:47 EDT
other video will come on Sunday
​Shane
 04/05/2022 at 13:39:36 EDT
 yes, there is a teaser at the end and a message for you guys, the community




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:39:17 EDT
thank you so much. To you and the mods etc




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:37:24 EDT
but you can't say it wasn't deserved .. I will stick up for E2, our devs and our community




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:36:58 EDT
haha .. there will be one more meltdown I think after this video ..




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:34:16 EDT
I can't give you an exact answer but there will be purpose for ocean tiles and I want to make it
interesting




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:31:54 EDT
thanks for sticking with E2 too guys




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:30:20 EDT
hey




Shane
04/05/2022 at 13:30:06 EDT
I am here too guys. Got caught up in this YT chat




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:35:16 EDT
not the one from my YT... you'll see, just enjoy the show




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:34:45 EDT
anyway, it's 12:30am and I've been awake working since 4am yesterday now. I have some things
to wrap up then driving home to go to bed
Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:33:44 EDT
a mini egg !




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:33:37 EDT
oh !! good idea !




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:33:11 EDT
there are many people who don't want Earth 2 to succeed .. I'm not joking. They know what I am
like and they know what I want to do .. and that's not what they want to do. Then on top of that we
have these YT'ers .. it's all




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:30:51 EDT
anyway, you'll all have a better understanding over the next week




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:30:23 EDT
I don;t think you guys understand what it would look like .. there would be no loops




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:30:06 EDT
no loops ..




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:29:58 EDT
basically one day of sitting there recording lol




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:29:49 EDT
ok - we will try to find time. Just everyone is so busy




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:29:13 EDT
ok I will pass that on




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:28:23 EDT
yeah, have been having a few good laughs with the devs. They just sent me a 10 min flyover low
over the mountains through Europe .. wow .. you could go on forever. It was mesmerising .. we just
need to find one of the te
am members willing to sit there for 10 hours and record it lol
​Shane
 04/01/2022 at 10:26:06 EDT
 I was hoping NE might buy it lol




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:25:29 EDT
it will be a quick glimpse - but you won't have to wait very long to see more - hang in there guys,
everything is panning out




Shane
04/01/2022 at 10:25:00 EDT
the poor souls ..




Shane
03/30/2022 at 05:00:10 EDT
I am going to get some sleep. Night guys.




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:59:58 EDT
I have nothing to say ...




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:59:21 EDT
Callum didn't even make the world. He made some procedural random world that is not Earth




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:58:48 EDT
I simply cannot believe when there is clear evidence, right there to listen to, they are still trying to
twist it.




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:57:32 EDT
Nameless - you're very good at conversing and you have a very good understanding of the English
language. You cannot tell me that what I said, word for word, meant something else and was
confusing : ---- Number 5- Yo
u need to be able to have the same level of detail achievable on any point in the world. For
example, on our video we used a spot in British Columbia, Canada, but our tech works the same
for any place in the world. So you
have to do that too. ----




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:56:06 EDT
I'm sorry. I said what I said word for word. I don't know how it can be any more clearer. You don't
break sentences up to understand it .. the fact you're refusing to admit what this means : ---- You
need to be able to have the
same level of detail achievable on any point in the world. For example, on our video we used a
spot in British Columbia, Canada, but our tech works the same for any place in the world. So you
have to do that too. ----- tells
me you're not looking at this from an unbiased position


Shane please read exactly what I said in the video, this is word for word : Number 5- ----- You
need to be able to have the same level of detail achievable on any point in the world. For
example, on our video we used a spot in British Columbia, Canada, but our tech works the same
for any place in




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:53:44 EDT
I'm telling you right now. If the positions were reversed, Callum would be screaming this from the
rooftops referring to his own video clip, stating exactly what he said and claiming anyone who
didn't understand would be an i
mbecile ..




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:52:43 EDT
please read exactly what I said in the video, this is word for word : Number 5- ----- You need to be
able to have the same level of detail achievable on any point in the world. For example, on our
video we used a spot in Britis
h Columbia, Canada, but our tech works the same for any place in the world. So you have to do
that too. ----- If you think that can mean just any old world and just any old detail then I really don't
know where to go with this




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:50:50 EDT
why would I set a challenge that had nothing to do with recreating our world .. and what I said
backs that up




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:49:11 EDT
Nameless - please read very carefully. Here are the words, the exact words, word for word, that
came out of my mouth in the video challenge on YouTube : Here is exactly what I said : Number
5- You need to be able to ha
ve the same level of detail achievable on any point in the world. For example, on our video we
used a spot in British Columbia, Canada, but our tech works the same for any place in the world.
So you have to do that too.




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:48:10 EDT
why would someone ignore the words I said in the challenge. I mean what are we even supposed
to do if the person accepting the challenge doesn't even use my video (and what I said)?




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:45:51 EDT
Nameless - even if you ignore that, why wouldn't anyone listen to the actual video and what I
said? 10 minutes and 36 seconds Here is exactly what I said : Number 5- You need to be able to
have the same level of detail ac
hievable on any point in the world. For example, on our video we used a spot in British Columbia,
Canada, but our tech works the same for any place in the world. So you have to do that too. So
why would you guys not only
overlook the YT description but also what I actually said? What's going on?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_d6uiW7Evw




Shane
03/30/2022 at 04:39:07 EDT
I have no idea how a list that Nameless created is being used as a reference for the rules. 1 - I set
full guidelines on the video I posted (actually Chris just pasted that above). 2 - Why don't people
even listen to what I said v
s taking other people writing the rules? If you listen to my video, the challenge video .. at 9m33s .. I
say Point number 5. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_d6uiW7Evw <---- Listen to 9 minutes
and 33 seconds .. clear as
day I have no idea where these other rules have come from.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:56:10 EDT
how is that a personal attack ?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:55:06 EDT
​does he want 3 more days? I mean he was talking about how easy it was .. he must have already
 done all the work anyway.. right ?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:51:05 EDT
just pointing out facts. I received a report on it earlier today and it kind of blew my mind. I couldn't
believe it's the same person




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:48:15 EDT
now who is moving goalposts ? I guarantee Callum read it and wanted to ignore it




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:47:44 EDT
right ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:47:00 EDT
100% .. it's beyond ridiculous. Have you guys heard Callum talk up his nightmare world on his YT
channel? Then he murders us for saying anything exciting in our dev vlog. Is this not blatantly
obvious to everyone lol ?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:45:02 EDT
this is irrelevant. Why would this not be read?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:44:45 EDT
Guys - please download this image and read. Why would nobody actually read the challenge?




e2_challenge_details_.png
68.65KB




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:43:00 EDT
I have one. No idea why it doesn't work well ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:42:28 EDT
read above




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:41:40 EDT
why would I ask him to create something that has nothing to do with what Earth 2 is creating ?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:41:00 EDT
here are the challenge details. Do you mean he didn't read the details?




e2_challenge_details_.png
68.65KB




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:37:35 EDT
we didn't ask him to copy the Earth 2 blog. We said any place




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:37:04 EDT
maybe I shouldn't have offered $10K in this challenge .. maybe then he would be a little more
accepting on what he has delivered




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:35:54 EDT
umm .. we need to know which countries they are. It doesn't look like anywhere on Earth ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:34:59 EDT
hey ?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:34:17 EDT
guys - if he adhered to the challenge and passed it then why wouldn't I pay him? I know you all
want him to be paid, understandable. I would like to know which countries he is showing in this
image if you can ask Callum to c
onfirm




e2_WhatPartoftheWorld.png
789.94KB




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:31:25 EDT
I am saying wait for the video response




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:30:21 EDT
exactly
​Shane
 03/29/2022 at 23:29:50 EDT
 he hasn't proven anything. He did what he criticised us for doing. You guys need to remember,
 that dev vlog 1 was just a simple, innocent dev vlog we published to educate our players (many
 who don't understand how thes
 e type of things work so we were pointing things out). Callum took that video and created a
 response that ripped it to pieces and said it's all simple, no source, easy (etc). I am sure we can all
 agree with that. So we called hi
 m out and asked him to prove out easy it was. He has not even correctly validated that he met the
 guidelines and he did that intentionally becuase he knows he hasn't met the guidelines. SO what
 is the backup plan? Get ev
eryone to scream for him to be paid .. Even with this aside, there are clear visuals on where he did
not pass and I will point those out.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:26:43 EDT
I will create a video with a response. No point going over details here without visuals




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:25:52 EDT
just by getting more people to say he won the challenge does not mean he won it




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:24:24 EDT
thank you @ampersanddotsys and the other mods. I appreciate the time you guys put in and sorry
for how crazy today must have been




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:22:12 EDT
thank you




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:21:07 EDT
we didn't even launch 2 years ago ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 23:20:35 EDT
if there are any of Callum's team in here still. Could you guys please find out which countries
Callum is actually showing in this image?




e2_WhatPartoftheWorld.png
789.94KB




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:36:40 EDT
anyway, back to work for me




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:36:26 EDT
it was always there




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:34:08 EDT
this is the funny part. Callum claims to have reached out to me asking for more information (i.e
where in British Columbia .. like it wasn't obvious enough. I guess he found that place himself and
realised that it would be way t
oo difficult to replicate. I am sure he's happy I didn't answer him though I am not sure where or
how he reached out to me). So Callum claims to be wanting more information yet he chooses to
ignore the CHALLENGE DETA
ILS which have always been there on the video description. Funny everyone chooses to ignore
those details which provide that additional information.
e2_challenge_details.png
46.11KB




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:31:17 EDT
actually, we do sit through them and try to find constructive criticism. At first there was some but
then it became obvious what their motivation was. We tried to take it seriously at first




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:30:25 EDT
I wonder how many views that is collectively now




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:26:58 EDT
some of them advertise their services to be paid in certain areas. Not sure if that is a surprise to
anyone




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:25:54 EDT
thank you Joom




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:25:12 EDT
I will show proof - but even after I prove that the next thing will come up. Just like the YT'ers who
create negative content, skip anything positive and go onto the next thing that will see them get
paid




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:23:38 EDT
sorry for the stress it may be causing now but you will see long term what the plan is.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:21:49 EDT
they wrote digital world. Not 1:1 scale of the planet Earth.




Shane
​ 03/29/2022 at 20:20:34 EDT
 exactly




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:16:53 EDT
my pleasure. I have already been donating anyway




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:15:51 EDT
I think that one went over your head a little ..
Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:15:16 EDT
exactly. This is what they do and it's what they have very likely been paid to do for a long time.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:14:06 EDT
we were planning to. Just needed an intro .. you get what I mean




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:13:27 EDT
if you would consider this close.. if I showed you the previous work our devs have created,
themselves, it would blow your mind. I trust them over what Callum claims




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:11:33 EDT
not bad if you don't know what you're looking for. I really expected a lot more from him




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:11:07 EDT
so you see here? Once we seem to prove one thing they next list of accusations will flow.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:10:08 EDT
this is trickery Sarra .. anyone can make something that looks to be the size of the world. Game
companies do this with planets all the time. He knows it's no where near a 1:1 scale and even if it
were, you can see the lack o
f detail in the heightmap vs what we displayed (graphics aside)




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:08:25 EDT
when he realises how invaluable it is .. maybe .. or maybe not, because he knows it will show how
he fooled everyone into thinking he successfully completed the challenge




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:07:31 EDT
lol yes .. hi there




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:07:09 EDT
you'll see it over the next couple of weeks




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:06:21 EDT
I already committed to doing that, whether Callum won or not. A charity to help women and
children in the Ukrainian crisis. I have said this many times




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:05:29 EDT
when we prove this to be incorrect, will you change your opinion? Does it really matter?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:05:00 EDT
even if you ignore the visuals he has failed (though if you read the actual challenge the visuals
were tied in but let's not argue that point right now)




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:04:00 EDT
I gave Callum a massive opportunity to completely discredit Earth 2. I really thought he would
come with more than this




Shane
03/29/2022 at 20:02:56 EDT
there are a number of things we can already show he failed with, but generally speaking, for
someone who would normally provide a process (and it was required, step by step) he
conveniently skipped over that part instead
opting to complain for 80% of the video




Shane
03/29/2022 at 19:59:39 EDT
he would not want to share it because people will see exactly what he did ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 19:55:08 EDT
he tried to make the tech and he would have worked out very early on that it’s much more difficult
than he thought. He then spent the rest of the week trying to work out a way he could trick people
into making it look like he
accomplished the 7 requirements to save his own reputations and turn it into a subjective
argument when it never had to be like this. One thing I miscalculated was the ability of Callum, I
thought it was a little better than this
as a developer and I also thought he had more integrity, where he would admit when something
was more difficult that he originally stated. But it doesn’t matter, the end result will be the same.. I
just don’t see him admitting i
t. I am sure he started out recording his progress (i.e he was dropping GIFs on his progress and
teasing) which he very easily could have shared (without jeopardising the source code) but he
clearly chose not to. He did the
exact thing he criticised us of doing .. yet his challenge was a tiny one week thing to prove
everything was as easy as he originally claimed. It's a shame people are arguing about this when
it’s beyond clear what he has don
e (and yes, that’s even if we ignore the lack of visuals ..) This is far from over and I knew the
process will be painful – but the truth will come out in the end.
​ Shane I get that 100%. But if you look at E2 we did not hype things up spreading FOMO - though
 I could have MANY times VERY EASILY. I didn't want to do that though and wanted to focus on
 slowly building product, which is exactly what we're doing. We have a very unique opportunity here
 ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:54:18 EDT
I need to get back to work but I would leave referencing this comment. If it's not E2 that succeeds
here you're likely going to have another corporate figure take its place and they are going to use
you, not reward you. So re
member that when we show updates, progress and the tech we're building. You guys trying to
bring the project down are working toward setting something much worse into its place




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:51:08 EDT
too many to list but obviously the true 1:1 scale digital replica of the planet earth is one .. look at all
the controversy it's causing




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:49:01 EDT
ok - I really hope that you and your critics truly keep your word on that.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:48:07 EDT
no




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:46:47 EDT
we will - and when we do - be humble enough to accept it




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:46:30 EDT
60 devs? Where did this come from? I say we have 60+ people working for our company and
suddenly that is 60 devs? The prototype Callum tried to reproduce was done by a couple of very
talented devs over 6-8 weeks p
art time .. crazy how these things spread .. 60 devs working on this dev vlog ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:44:56 EDT
3D 1:1 scale digital version of the planet Earth. Not this fake small scale stuff that just appears as a
representation .. trickery .. not what we're doing




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:42:02 EDT
everything is just a number then .. it was in there as a requirement for a reason.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:40:36 EDT
I was pointing that out - not changing the rules. Same with the devs helping him comment. Just
pointing it out as a probability. That's why I wrote #whatever .. I didn't say the deal was off




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:38:05 EDT
please show me where I changed the rules? I pointed things out.. didn't change the rules.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:37:22 EDT
thanks for your message Algiz and I understand your concern. You will see why I have done this
over the next few days, weeks and even months. This will be a major win for E2 long term. Please
wait and see




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:36:20 EDT
please play fair. And if we prove we have what we say we have created, please be prepared to
acknowledge that
Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:35:20 EDT
well, we have shown that we can do that ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:34:48 EDT
exactly. We won't glance over that at all. That would be unfair




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:34:01 EDT
no - you will get the same answer just better explained




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:33:12 EDT
send me the screenshot, I am happy to post it again. The reason I deleted it is because I will cover
that in my video anyway and can probably articulate it a little better. But what I wrote is correct




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:30:49 EDT
lol .. not at all. Go read my answer on the live stream. What I said was correct




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:30:03 EDT
I am sure you guys caught it on the chat stream anyway




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:29:55 EDT
I am sure my answer popped up on the chat feed but I am not going to sit here and answer the
areas he didn't meet .. it will just people a chance to prepare answers




Shane
​ 03/29/2022 at 15:24:34 EDT
 I 100% agree




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:23:41 EDT
no - I can see parts he has failed in. I can see parts he failed to even demonstrate .. and I know
why he avoided those parts




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:22:52 EDT
it will become more difficult to get Essence over time and soon larger property holders will need to
collaborate with free to play EcoSim players in order to get the most out of their properties




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:21:51 EDT
I'm sorry, that just proves you don't know what you're talking about ..
Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:21:16 EDT
I will look at that but the fact here is the 7 requirements all rely on one another. It's easy to
recreate a few but all together at a true 1:1 scale size of the planet earth is the difficult part. That's
why so many say it's never been
done before .. and you guys will see that we have done exactly that .. what they keep saying is
impossible.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:19:12 EDT
we launched 15 months ago and 8 months of that was catching up with the hyper growth and
trying to scale our team.. I think we've already shown and done a lot for that time frame. Games
often take years to launch, why
expect us to launch the full game in a few months ?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:17:05 EDT
we did - in our first dev vlog. We did not lie in that dev vlog at all .. Do you think we're just going to
show the world the exact tech we've developed so everyone can use it? Come on ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:16:01 EDT
what I would ask is that when we do prove it, that you guys have enough humility to accept it




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:15:33 EDT
and we will. Why make it out like we won't ?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:15:02 EDT
but he claimed this was all easy and OOTB .. why not educate the people on how it's so easy (no
source code)




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:13:08 EDT
we are rolling out a new bidding system soon




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:12:18 EDT
ours wasn't a demo .. it was a vlog informing our community on what we've been working on and
what we were building. Callum created a response talking about how basic everything we showed
was and how anyone coul
d easily recreate out of the box with a few plugins. Anyway, I will try to get a video out over the
next couple of days talking about next steps. Let's make this interesting at least for all of the
viewers




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:09:22 EDT
no, I am serious. If you're a dev and you're interested you'll see what we have built and why it is
different
Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:08:19 EDT
just follow along, you'll see.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:06:54 EDT
no - they're not watching the video.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:05:59 EDT
it is beyond belief .. lol




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:05:21 EDT
Callum said it was easy and anyone could do what we are doing quite easily. He said it's no
source, out of the box .. I guess he worked out it's not that easy and decided to spend more time
speaking about how everything w
as unfair vs educating people ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:04:02 EDT
we did not mislead people on our dev vlog. The funny thing is that dev vlog was just a taste
leading up to other things .. this was blown out of proportion when Callum made his video
misleading everyone .. and he's still doin
g it




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:02:38 EDT
I mean a response to Callum's video. We need to make this interesting, right ? And there is no
pre-rendering .. you'll see in good time




Shane
03/29/2022 at 15:00:22 EDT
​I know exactly how this can be proven for what it is. I will release a video over the next couple of
 days




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:57:22 EDT
come on .. let's play fair here ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:56:54 EDT
I really thought he would show more than this .. anyway, I will have a response over the next
couple days




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:56:20 EDT
I can tell you right now he didn't.. and you'll see why.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:54:28 EDT
I thought we would get a lot better than this .. what I can't believe is that you guys, the ones
following Callum, actually think they compare




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:53:06 EDT
it will be coming - this is what I planned anyway




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:52:45 EDT
0 education .. just a repeat of what he did on the first dev vlog .. I think we need a wager on this to
make it interesting.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:51:37 EDT
I will make a response to his video. I already had most drafted because I knew exactly what he
was going to do .. can't believe how accurate I was




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:50:46 EDT
literally in tears rn




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:50:36 EDT
oh my goodness . .I feel bad but that was hilarious ...




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:50:01 EDT
ROFL




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:49:59 EDT
LOL ! Please sell it to the other metaverses for $10K ! LOLLLLL




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:49:16 EDT
this is EXACTLY what I knew he would say ! Jackpot ! LOL




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:48:27 EDT
oh my goodness .. he just doesn't get it ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:47:10 EDT
seems Callum spent more time figuring out what he was going to say vs actually working on the
challenge




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:45:59 EDT
lol ... this dev vlog 1 was not supposed to bring so much attention. he said he did this in 30 mins ...
why not show the steps .. lol




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:44:22 EDT
you will see soon




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:43:32 EDT
there was a reason I did this and his response is more than I could have ever hoped for lol




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:41:44 EDT
Callum does not understand the difference between Loading and Streaming .. ouch




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:41:32 EDT
I am still watching the video. I will respond to this when I get the chance




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:39:57 EDT
no, I thought he would do better than this .. hmm
​Shane
 03/29/2022 at 14:39:10 EDT
 I am actually a bit disappointed .. I thought it would be better than this.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:34:16 EDT
yes, we are working out how we do that so there is not a final solution yet though




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:32:32 EDT
I am not answering that lol




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:30:54 EDT
do you have a support ticket ?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:30:28 EDT
good idea actually. We have a lot in our deliverables but I will add this concept in there




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:29:06 EDT
it will be. We are not decentralised yet but I am 100% committed to making this happen




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:28:25 EDT
if he legitimately fulfilled the requests of course I would look at that. We want to attract the best
devs in the world. But I am not sure this will be the case and Callum has some weird idea that all I
want is his code (we don't w
ant his code). Additionally, Callum has his own project and I know first hand how busy he is on
that so he'd want to focus on finishing that. This should not be taken out of context, it is virtually
impossible for Callum to truly re
create the 7 requirements I set. My main point here is that we want to attract the best devs in the
world to E2 who see what we are creating and share the same vision - to me, that is the most
valuable thing right now.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:24:50 EDT
I get that 100%. But if you look at E2 we did not hype things up spreading FOMO - though I could
have MANY times VERY EASILY. I didn't want to do that though and wanted to focus on slowly
building product, which is ex
actly what we're doing. We have a very unique opportunity here .. most start ups require VC
funding to make it big (or help them grow to a size of significance after they get some initial
traction). And those VCs usually have
a lot of control .. the game is already over by that stage. We DIDN'T NEED IT and I DIDN'T TAKE
IT! Which gives us this freaking incredibly unique opportunity to build something WITHOUT THE
WORLD CORPORATE INF
LUENCE! This is what I am doing !




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:21:56 EDT
yes of course .. I have already personally donated 5 figures to the cause.. no problem proving that




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:21:33 EDT
if it helps woman and children, yes, I'm down for that




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:21:19 EDT
interesting .. I didn't realise MySpace was still a thing.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:20:33 EDT
either way I will donate $15K AUD to a charity that helps women and children in Ukraine and other
areas of the world. If Callum legitimately succeeds in the challenge I would 100% pay him.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:19:48 EDT
cheers




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:19:17 EDT
I have requested this directly to one of our inhouse counsels. They will follow up and provide me
with a report and I'll ensure it's resolved for you




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:18:17 EDT
the public will be fooled, I know this. And we will educate them. But let's see what Callum's video
says first
Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:17:19 EDT
no offence but if you would recreate that for $10K you have to check your business decision
making skills




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:16:09 EDT
please give me a support ticket number and I will pass it on. @butt can you give me your support
ticket number too and I will ask for a direct report back to me also




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:15:14 EDT
this is not about convincing Callum's followers to buy land in E2. I hope some day in the future
they may try E2 when there is more game play but I just want to point out this is not about trying to
convert their followers




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:13:37 EDT
https://earth2.io/updates I highly doubt it ..
​Shane
 03/29/2022 at 14:12:34 EDT
 everyone has their role to play in the scheme of things




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:11:23 EDT
Hi Callum & friends. Hope you're all having a bit of fun lol




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:10:34 EDT
that's a good idea, but it would reduce one of the purposes for the EcoSim player




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:09:38 EDT
but the solution we have been building to solve the issue of streaming an accurate 1:1 scale
version of the entire planet Earth (1:1 scale) required us to create proprietary tech .. so not sure
why we cannot use that if it's acc
urate?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:07:40 EDT
I'd be open to that but let's see what he delivers in his video first




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:06:24 EDT
yes .. like my schedule wasn't busy enough .. it has taken away a little extra sleep lol




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:05:23 EDT
yeah, and I think that is cool for him in a way.. there are ways for this to end amicably and that
really is what I hope for as the best outcome, but either way, I have my plan and I decided to make
a stand given the timing of
what we're doing etc.
Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:03:25 EDT
this is accurate. And then you only have to see the results of that misinformation with them
flooding onto our socials basically repeating anything they have heard without even trying to
validate it themselves.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:02:28 EDT
thank you to our MODs for putting up with this. Deeply appreciated.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:01:47 EDT
there are benefits for both types of tiles in our game design. Just like it is in the real world I
suppose




Shane
03/29/2022 at 14:00:01 EDT
yeah we're moving more and more to RoR but it's certainly ongoing. I don't have enough time to
get involved directly anyway, I mainly receive reports.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 13:57:43 EDT
I am not taking anyone out. I would be the first to help out anyone in need. I called Callum out for
reasons I have already provided and those reasons are more than justified. We've been taking
punches for months and then
we throw back a little jab and people start crying out about the injustice. .




Shane
03/29/2022 at 13:54:48 EDT
oh - I thought you had it. Just email me




Shane
03/29/2022 at 13:53:00 EDT
thank you. Please CC Dan




Shane
03/29/2022 at 13:52:44 EDT
well this is live drama at it's best, I would say




Shane
03/29/2022 at 13:52:07 EDT
it may be one of the tickets in QA - I know it's not ready to push to prod just yet




Shane
03/29/2022 at 13:51:39 EDT
if you guys think today is the end goal, you misunderstand what I am doing




Shane
03/29/2022 at 13:48:50 EDT
I hope so as well and I hope he points out how complicated it is to solve some of the real issues I
listed as requirements, not just pretend like he solved them. For a guy who talks a whole lot, I’ll be
interested to see whether
he can actually educate people in his video and show everyone why this is so very easy - let’s not
forget he was the one who created a 30 min video calling our solution “no source” amongst many
other things. My guess is t
hat he will use visually appealing assets alone that have very little technical significance toward
solving the actual problem and create some kind of comical satire, which is fine for a little bit of
fun, but I’m guessing he will us
e the two aforementioned points in an attempt to hide his technical shortcomings… which were the
challenge. Who knows, I might be wrong but just weighing in as everyone is so excited (including
me) to see what he decid
es to serve up. I think it would give him a little more credibility if he pointed out and acknowledged
the parts he could genuinely not solve, even if that meant he throws a challenge back on us, but if
he doesn't and he tries to
mislead people once again, his group may try to claim the win but it will be short lived and an even
harder fall will be coming for him. At the end of the day it's the viewers who win, not many could
argue against this not bein
g entertaining!
​Shane
 03/29/2022 at 02:23:03 EDT
 ok - I have to get going guys. Nice to catch up and I am just as eager as everyone else to see
 what Callum dishes up now that the full 7 days are just about up. Keep safe !




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:22:19 EDT
I don't think what I did reflects as an insecure 12 year old .. but hey, each to their own opinion




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:21:24 EDT
yes please. Through support




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:21:06 EDT
that's an interesting idea but I am not sure when I can commit. Other companies wanting to meet
with me and it's a 3 week wait right now ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:19:31 EDT
if you report via support it does get back to the team. Thanks very much for offering to help




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:19:05 EDT
I want to make sections available for the younger generation for sure. Especially areas where they
can be creative. So yes, there will be areas like this. I have ideas for how this will work but not
willing to share yet sorry




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:17:43 EDT
I am not sure on this one yet. Not really thought about it and it's not on the radar right now




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:16:28 EDT
there will be levels but we're not ready to release




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:16:00 EDT
seems it was even noticeable from the outside too




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:15:31 EDT
I am a bit different .. I am a gamer too, I like challenges and I threw one at Callum.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:14:34 EDT
it will be, but you can see what others have created too. Like any game element, sometimes
things take a bit of time to master




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:13:39 EDT
I listened too much to people who were close to me. I should have followed my own intent from
the beginning




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:12:38 EDT
not initially. It will serve as a fully fledged social media platform though




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:12:12 EDT
I can't tell you that exactly but we obviously want to ensure most people with a mid range PC can
play




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:11:26 EDT
lol no - why do you ask? They use YouTube a lot (as most younger kids / teenagers do). That's
where they see things about me and get upset. I am not sure they realise I have a twitter account




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:09:58 EDT
as I wrote above, I am not super fond of how people are abusing NFTs .. especially the ones with
no plans for Utility. I would love to offer ways for some of those NFTs to add utility for their NFT
inside of E2 (in their own littl
e bubble system). One of the ideas I have written down but no time to build it out just yet




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:08:17 EDT
we want to ensure we get the right solution there. It may take some time




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:07:36 EDT
ummm .. that might be pushing it lol




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:07:04 EDT
ahh funny thing on this. Before I launched E2 I actually created this AR thing from an idea I had
where people could walk into an AR bubble and audio would play .. my head is full of too many
ideas
Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:06:02 EDT
ouch
​Shane
 03/29/2022 at 02:05:54 EDT
 I love the idea of audio ads .. and video ads will be supported as well




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:05:16 EDT
it is the first version of the entire planet Earth, to scale. 1:1 scale. It will be v1 and there will be
more versions released. It won't be the full Phase 3 experience but it will demonstrate and allow
Players to actually experience t
he tech we've built for the first time on a global scale




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:03:44 EDT
I am not getting involved with what price Essence may trade at. I just know that over time we will
keep building and utilise the tech we're creating to keep expanding Earth 2 and introduce new
utlity to Essence as that journe
y continues




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:02:26 EDT
yes - we are pushing for those. Many reviews with QA is what I have received in my daily reports




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:01:24 EDT
funny thing that ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:01:10 EDT
I think Q3 for the social media platform




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:00:38 EDT
sounds awesome !




Shane
03/29/2022 at 02:00:12 EDT
yeah, I can guess who that may have been




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:59:49 EDT
there will be different styles of buildings. Not only what you see in the dev vlogs. Those are just the
initial versions




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:58:56 EDT
aww .. this is beyond sweet to read. I can't wait until we have our own space .. a social media
platform we control (which I would like the Players to be in control of too in various ways). Thank
you so very much for the inspir
ational message @kissy85 and I thank you for being part of Earth 2. I am truly humbled




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:56:46 EDT
well, it may be possible! We will release more details about what players can do in the open world
as time progresses. I don't like to release information until I am sure about it being accurate




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:55:54 EDT
I don't own an oculus headset




Shane

03/29/2022 at 01:55:36 EDT
it's scheduled for Q3. There are reasons I might launch earlier but please consider Q3 for now




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:54:45 EDT
and sorry, hello




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:54:30 EDT
yes




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:54:00 EDT
I am in contact with a few smaller projects who have interesting tech and who have NOT yet been
scooped up by the bigger players ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:53:12 EDT
I will visit




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:52:53 EDT
we have many employees .. but that does sound concerning. I have learned there are many
people that cannot be trusted




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:51:36 EDT
I realise there has been this massive stigma associated with Earth 2 as being a scam due to all of
the ongoing YT'er videos but if you look at what I am actually trying to do with Earth 2, you will see
that Earth 2 is probably o
ne of the biggest opportunities the world will ever get to creating a true metaverse for the people,
gamers, netizens etc and I am focused on making that happen. Normally, companies like E2 that
experience so much initial s
uccess get picked up by VCs early (as they tried to do with us) and from there it's all controlled ..
look at all the metaverses out there - don't people see who is actually behind them and who owns
it? Ironically, these YT'ers
who attack us are attacking probably the biggest chance they have of a metaverse that is not
heavily influenced by big corporations and rich, influential people... yet for some reason there is
this ongoing focus to try and take
us down. I guarantee, GUARANTEE, that if any other metaverse came along and received the
temptations I received, almost 100% would take it .. so Earth 2 has this unique opportunity to be
the odd one out
​Shane
 03/29/2022 at 01:46:11 EDT
 I am sure our support team could help. It would be escalated to the Sydney office and they would
 probably be able to do something in that case (but let's not think about that scenario for your
 sake!)




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:45:22 EDT
where did you hear that ?




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:45:02 EDT
I have massive ideas for NPCs. It will come a little later on by they will be very different - trust me !




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:44:12 EDT
thanks Drew. I am not a public speaker as I have mentioned before and I know I need to practice
so just trying to get some practice in as well I suppose. I'm really glad people enjoyed the video.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:42:58 EDT
I am very aware of this but we have not had time to work out a solution. I think when we allow
minting of tiles as NFTs later this year it will present other options to you




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:41:46 EDT
and I am trying to build a platform that kind of brings all of that together. Thinking about it .. it
would be easier for me to just make short videos talking about these ideas so people have a
clearer understanding




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:40:56 EDT
best thing to be doing - many might have wished they'd listened to me when I wrote that last year




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:40:12 EDT
our dev teams are working around the clock to release those last few features for Q1 (apart from
the Essence algorithm restructure as mentioned before). After that I think they will assign some
dev hours to that upgrade but
as you can see, we have a very big Q2 coming up ..




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:38:53 EDT
my goal is not for gamers to open their wallets. I actually want to create interesting gameplay and I
hope gamers (or people who enjoy playing games) come to Earth 2 free to play


Shane well, the way I would like to create the Earth 2 DAO will allow Players to have varying
levels of control in different areas which would allow Players to 'be' in areas they feel their views
have closer alignment with
Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:37:38 EDT
it will allow people with similar ideologies / beliefs .. even clans / guilds, co-exist together. I think it
will be quite interesting and over time we will add more levers for the DAO to control within E2 as a
whole and then down the
chain.




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:34:27 EDT
well, the way I would like to create the Earth 2 DAO will allow Players to have varying levels of
control in different areas which would allow Players to 'be' in areas they feel their views have
closer alignment with




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:32:06 EDT
happy birthday @drewe2 !




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:31:51 EDT
hi there. I am not sure what you mean about making good, I have always tried to be open with my
community on here but just reading through the chat and I do agree with some of the points you
made




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:30:00 EDT
anyway, it's nice to see some people from Callum's group come in and talk civilly and voicing their
opinions / concerns in an intelligent, open way




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:28:57 EDT
I agree with this too and it's one of the reasons I want to create a multi-layered DAO. Everyone will
see why over time but I have confirmed with our Web3 team whether we can achieve my vision
and they have confirmed it'
s possible




Shane
03/29/2022 at 01:27:41 EDT
I agree with this and let's face it, most NFTs are exactly that, useless .. and I disagree with that.
When I launched Earth 2 I always planned for tiles / land (whatever you want to call it) to have
utility / things you can do with it,
on it, from it etc.




Shane
03/28/2022 at 20:01:36 EDT
get some sleep




Shane
03/28/2022 at 20:00:34 EDT
(where did the Callum supporters go??)
Shane
03/28/2022 at 20:00:22 EDT
have a good day guys ! Keep safe !
​Shane
 03/28/2022 at 20:00:16 EDT
 ahh !!!! It's 10am ! Man time flies .. I am late




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:59:52 EDT
I would entertain it for sure. And we have a very powerful platform coming




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:59:14 EDT
please don't give me ideas . .I have to refrain from trolling lol




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:58:48 EDT
Amiga 500 (not really mine, belonged to my uncle but he was never interested in computers and I
spent my time using it). I didn't have very much growing up and begged my dad to buy that same
PC years later so I could h

ave my own PC (while others had much better models).




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:57:26 EDT
nono .. I can handle Kassadin .. damn annoying match up though




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:56:55 EDT
sure !




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:55:59 EDT
Malzahar




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:55:40 EDT
and steam rolling lol




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:55:27 EDT
we are looking at gameplay here and strategy - trust me




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:54:54 EDT
DOTA was where it was at .. loved WC3 ..




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:54:27 EDT
I can't comment on this sorry.
Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:53:56 EDT
ZERG ! I played all races but Zerg is by far the most enjoyable for me




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:53:29 EDT
lol .. I think I remember that. It could have been my kids, they were trying to play together and one
of their PCs had an issue at that time




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:52:12 EDT
pretty big news coming on that




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:51:56 EDT
Ultima IV on Sega .. still my favourite. Used to love MK too on all platforms




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:51:24 EDT
yes, if that is true then it sounds like he is trying to soften his failure with some kind of attempt at
comedic satire




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:49:35 EDT
well I had the opportunity to be a pro gamer for StarCraft. I played CounterStrike, Diablo, Ultima,
X2, Abe's Oddysee was really fun .. I finished that without any cheat codes (on PS1). There are
too many games to list ..
over recent years I have played Fortnite and League with my kids (my son if very good).. I wish I
had more time to play but creating E2 will give me an excuse to play I also organised the biggest
gaming event in Australia
n history. I can talk about that in a video one day if anyone is interested (too much to write out
here)




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:46:07 EDT
I am referring to crafting of Jewels - which will be expanded in the future




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:45:41 EDT
I am not sure what you mean here? I was an avid gamer (still would be if I had time). Regarding
the Jewel reference. Of course it's not fully 3D interactive gameplay yet but it's still a form of
gameplay and it's leading to bigge
r things. Crafting is a form of game play .. and I don't want that to be taken out of perspective but
you can have games on websites and the things you're seeing form together will lead up to much
more interesting gameplay i
n the future. If you can't see that the things I am working on now will form into multiple game
experiences in the future then you'll just have to wait and see it all evolve
​Shane
 03/28/2022 at 19:42:03 EDT
 really? I will make a note. I know he has amazing creations! The video was thrown together quickly




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:40:55 EDT
rightly so




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:40:36 EDT
no .. no time. I need to ..




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:40:06 EDT
sorry, I don't have a lot of spare time though I would love to watch. Love your other content that I
have seen. You deliver it so well




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:39:16 EDT
yes I do - and we are a geolocational metaverse .. of course these will apply as well. I know the
CEO of a company that has developed interesting tech that will help us provide this service




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:38:04 EDT
but thanks for the offer




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:37:57 EDT
I have meetings all morning. Basically chatting here while eating a little breakfast. I will try to be a
little more public moving forward. I have accepted an interview with E2 news as well and I may
start accepting some of these
panels I get invited to




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:36:46 EDT
I can't say anything about it as it is not 100% finalised




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:35:27 EDT
yes, I had a meeting with some of their C-level yesterday. I received a report about some in the
community wondering why we're not on the showcase etc. They are showing new projects. All is
good with them




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:34:11 EDT
as I said, I want to build a way to connect the two .. so I want to build a marketplace for that (once
again, something beneficial for the Players).




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:33:26 EDT
yes I did on Sunday. Had a nice lunch with them in the city. Thank you




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:31:45 EDT
the one who solves it will know what to do
Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:31:07 EDT
we are working on those but there is also a plan to release our own official launcher, so we're
trying not to do too much double work ( because Scams like to release more features)




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:30:02 EDT
exactly - that is one example




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:29:30 EDT
I guarantee you that we are not interested in even one line of Callum's code .. he does not need to
release any source code to us




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:28:40 EDT
that's a pretty odd response to a fairly long explanation. I guess you are just here to troll ..




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:27:27 EDT
I'm already fully aware of this. You guys will see what happens ..




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:26:24 EDT
no - he can use Unreal. I had no issue with that




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:26:02 EDT
let's see how many of the items he successfully ticks off first in any case




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:24:42 EDT
the second part of your accusation - just read it. So this is another thing the YouTubers have
brainwashed people with. We have paid out over $15m to our Players (do you know how much
work is involved in processing tha
t type of money out to tens of thousands?). We have also publicly stated we are decentralising. I
released a video yesterday speaking candidly about all of this. Does it not logically make sense to
you that if this were a scam
​and I had plans to shut everything down, I would have done this a very long time ago as opposed
 to .. well .. hiring more people, paying out millions, adding more features .. If this were a scam I
 would certainly not care at all
 about what the YouTubers publish or say in their videos, I would wear it. But that's not the case
 and much of the information they circulate is heavily one sided and they NEVER provide updates
 on things they were incorrect
 about. So not only do I have my team who feel understand attack, I have the E2 community as
 well and I decided to make a stance. Why would I do that if it were a scam? Why would I bring
 more attention to the project? Fu
 rthermore, each time these YouTubers create these videos, I have my younger kids, especially my
 youngest daughter, come to me in tears. I tell her not to watch them but they have devices and it's
 difficult to stop. Do you t
 hink, for one moment, that I would be running a scam when my children and family are all aware of
 what I am doing? It's beyond belief .. that's why these YT videos incorrectly (and without ground)
 accusing us of being a sc
 am become a little annoying after a while. I know .. next it will be "well he's not a scammer, he's
 just unintentionally scamming .. " right ?
Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:17:38 EDT
if you understood the rules you would know that it does. Either way, Callum said this was all very
easy so he should not have an issue with it




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:16:20 EDT
please see my first message above. It provides you with the background and answers this
question you have




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:15:41 EDT
I want to have this sorted out before Essence starts trading but I can't provide you with an exact
date sorry




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:15:06 EDT
1 - We all know he would not work alone, I was just pointing it out. I realise he would get help and I
didn't call anything off because of this. I was just pointing out how additional devs meant additional
hours of them trying to s
olve the same problem. 2 - I have not changed the written rules on the video I published. You can
read them there clearly so I am not sure what you are referring to here?




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:11:43 EDT
which ?




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:11:22 EDT
which rules did I add?




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:10:46 EDT
yes, I would hope so. I am pushing to build a solution that would accommodate for this




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:10:06 EDT
Coulda, woulda, shoulda .. I wanted to draw focus on this




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:09:37 EDT
it's ok - I wanted to hear what they had to say and I am here a few more minutes to listen




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:08:32 EDT
if I were the CEO you're envisioning, this would not be happening right now
Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:07:52 EDT
I realise this but honestly, there should be ways we can settle these things without involving
lawyers. Yes, I have relationships with some of the biggest law firms in the world but I am hoping
that Callum just realises it was h
arder than he thought and simply eases up on these clickbait videos




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:05:27 EDT
and how was it poorly worded?




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:04:59 EDT
you know I can't answer that right now. But you'll see




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:03:56 EDT
yes, and I stood up for my team, talented devs who I count as friends. Is that a problem? Do CEOs
need to be submissive?




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:03:01 EDT
no idea what this means but I'm thinking it should mean something lol




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:02:22 EDT
ok - so when you have a YT'er creating misleading content about each and everything you release
and we react - suddenly we're not mature? I look at it like the school bully throwing punch after
punch during lunch time, we
finally jabbed back and you guys cry it out as being unfair ?




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:01:03 EDT
thank you. There is a lot more coming and that bidding hub is a test for something much larger
later this year / early next year




Shane
03/28/2022 at 19:00:08 EDT
thanks very much Butt. But what is this barbecue video? lol
​Shane
 03/28/2022 at 18:59:16 EDT
 I am not trying to stand on a pedestal at all. In fact, I find it really odd that a talented game dev, as
 Callum purports to be, would spend his time creating videos on other projects (yes ambitious
 projects) using misleading info
 rmation. The other drama I kind of understood, there is motivation there for that group, however,
 when we published that dev vlog and he created the response video I got to see first hand what he
 was actually doing and I d
 ecided to call him out. It's extremely childish to say one dev is better than another, but Callum was
 publicly smashing our devs, who are freaking incredibly talented, and I stood up for them as they
 are part of my team and I
 know how talented they are. I will tell you now, I had no idea this first dev vlog was going to cause
 this much controversy. We actually didn't think much of it and just published it as a proof of
 concept. We have already devel
 oped much bigger tech we planned to show when our token launches. These dev vlogs were just
 supposed to give our community something to watch.
Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:53:59 EDT
you will see




Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:53:45 EDT
in some cases - yes




Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:53:26 EDT
look. I respect Callum as a small indie dev (we need more of them) and I am sure he is pretty good
at what he does, but a lot of this has been over his head.. I mean for one example he does not
even understand the differe
nce between streaming and loading. That's not even touching on the other parts he has publicly
admitted to not fully understanding. If you don't understand something you can simply ask, yet he
does not seem to want to do
that and is more focused on forming his own assumptions that happen to be 'the most simple way'
to do something. I mean why not make a video questioning our tech and asking if he can see it
working as opposed to a 30
min rant about how it's all simple and that any developer could do this .. As I said, if he honestly
reports his findings in the video he is planning to publish then I would certainly find him to be a lot
more honest than I thought h
e was




Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:48:24 EDT
I realise you would not take my word for it but what is the end goal here? We cannot stop and
prove every single point, especially minor points. I am telling you they are .. none of our artists
were involved with that part. What
we showed was a proof of concept prototype 2 of our lead devs (one full time one part time)
worked on over a couple of months. No artists were involved.




Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:45:49 EDT
team is looking into this




Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:45:03 EDT
there was a little confusion over who was handling that hunt (regarding previous CMs). Results will
be published on the website today I believe




Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:44:07 EDT
did Callum's followers leave ?




Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:43:13 EDT
thank you




Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:42:37 EDT
I can confirm this is true
Shane
03/28/2022 at 18:42:14 EDT
hey Nathicana. Irrespective of the fact we have not demonstrated this publicly, Callum still made a
30 min video stating that all of this was easy and that the Earth 2 devs are only just now
discovering these things. Any reas
onable person, watching that video, would come out believing what we showed is all out of the box
and maybe using a few plugins at max. Any reasonable person would interpret Callum's video to
mean exactly that. He ma
de those claims and I called him out on it. Now he is trying to prove that what he said was true, yet
it's taken him the full 7 days and seems to also be preparing excuses. I'd have a lot more respect
for him if he is honest duri
ng the video he plans to publish but we'll have to wait and see. Above all else, are you not
entertained? I am a gamer .. I like challenges and if Callum successfully completely the challenge I
would 100% pay him. Even if he
loses I will donate that money to help women and children in Ukraine and other places around the
world, so someone will win




Shane
03/27/2022 at 17:12:59 EDT
yes we can work something out. Please send questions through to the avenues you already have




Shane
03/27/2022 at 17:02:28 EDT
what game does he play? I wish I had time for games these days ..




Shane
03/27/2022 at 17:02:15 EDT
back to work - 3 hours sleep lol




Shane
03/27/2022 at 17:01:33 EDT
sorry, I have a lot on my plate right now. Just breezed through and saw that comment so thought
to reply .. don't despair.. everyone will see how this works out




Shane
03/27/2022 at 16:59:16 EDT
oh ye of little faith ..




Shane
03/26/2022 at 01:43:40 EDT
sorry guys - I woke up at 4:30pm yesterday and it's now 4pm today. Gotta get some sleep




Shane
​ 03/26/2022 at 01:42:40 EDT
 can you log a ticket for that please? I have seen that comment in my reports and I have passed it
 onto the dev team but our data shows it was updated




Shane
03/26/2022 at 01:41:59 EDT
we have two separate engines so to speak. The engine from last year was the Phase 3 engine
and this new one is kind of as well but we'll be releasing it this year as part of Phase 2. We had to
recreate the world using our
own custom systems (proprietary tech .. but people seem to hate that word) as there were many
requirements we needed to fulfil which were not available anywhere (and believe me, we tested A
LOT of existing tech before
working out we would need to build it ourselves)
Shane
03/26/2022 at 01:39:02 EDT
yes, Players can sell it on an exchange if they have it in their wallet




Shane
03/26/2022 at 01:38:17 EDT
can be read like that if you want it to be read like that .. what did he interpret 32m sample distance
as then ?


Shane of course it's need to match! What did he think the 32m sample distance suggested as well
then ?




Shane
03/26/2022 at 01:37:15 EDT
anyone can download a plugin and more or less run a globe that represents the entire planet earth
.. of course we know those exist. That is not at all what our solution is about




Shane
03/26/2022 at 01:36:03 EDT
of course it's need to match! What did he think the 32m sample distance suggested as well then ?




Shane
03/26/2022 at 01:34:08 EDT
"5-You need to be able to have the same detail, achievable on any point of the world. " He needs
to present the same detail as we did on our footage and that detail needs to work for any place in
the world




Shane
03/26/2022 at 01:28:05 EDT
hey guys. I received an update that some of the E2 community are a bit confused about how
many people were working on the Proof of Concept terrain system Callum is trying to replicate.
Some of you guys are suggesting
it was the entire team for an entire year .. guys .. 60+ are not all devs and the Proof of Concept
was focused on by 1.5 devs to build a prototype for the tech we needed to stream the entire
planet with precision to place tile lo
cations (in line with Mapbox) and many other things. This is like 1-2 months max, maybe less. Not
sure if that excuse has started from Callum's side to create a narrative of "Callum replicating our
entire teams work " .. certai
nly sounds like something that would come from him. The difference is our devs are quiet but
incredibly talented.. Callum is noisy and likes to be critical of the work from others so I called him
out. We have come a long way
since this POC video we published as dev vlog #1 and we'll be dropping that video when the
Essence token goes live to hype things up for our players




Shane
03/21/2022 at 13:06:06 EDT
I gotta get back to work guys .. on a bit of a rampage today :/




Shane
03/21/2022 at 13:05:54 EDT
I am all for collaboration. Expect a lot of it.
Shane
03/21/2022 at 13:04:53 EDT
exactly. And much more.. there are also things I can't talk about but our legal team are looking into
a few things of concern. I called them out on my personal twitter - not sure what is wrong with
that? I have no problem with
competition - it's great for the consumer! I have also more or less left the E2 copycats alone, their
existence is understandable but we still need to have limits and all I did was point something out
on Twitter. Sorry if some do
n't agree but there are things we know about that you guys don't.




Shane
03/17/2022 at 14:01:45 EDT
lol .. I have to sleep anyway. Is 4am and I need to wake up early for ... meetings .. and more
meetings! Yay!




Shane
03/17/2022 at 14:00:11 EDT
finally the E2 community is full for one night .. information overload. Night Bill, Lagrimas, Oscar




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:34:25 EDT
ok - I am off guys! Keep safe and have a great day! Thanks for your support and kind messages!




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:34:04 EDT
others might be able to answer that. I have alluded to a solution before in chat




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:33:24 EDT
and if E2 News intend on publishing my chat today .. please accept my most sincere apologies ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:33:00 EDT
finally caught up ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:32:44 EDT
I need to go die now




Shane
​ 03/17/2022 at 12:32:40 EDT
 I am here!




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:32:37 EDT
ok




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:32:24 EDT
we have too many other things to handle right now. I'd prefer to have a 3D world working and cool
stuff to show before reaching out
Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:31:50 EDT
I don't know enough about it, but I know it's more or less on track with the RoadMap (very close)




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:31:18 EDT
no comment. I know many are watching and we're focused on building tools first




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:30:29 EDT
T2 to T1 upgrades will solve this




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:30:00 EDT
we've never spoken with them




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:29:47 EDT
I know where this Q is coming from




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:29:32 EDT
what? lol




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:29:22 EDT
into holodecks at first I would say




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:28:59 EDT
I hope so by then




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:28:36 EDT
we use different dbs - not sure whether that is what you're referring to ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:27:53 EDT
is coming




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:27:41 EDT
because I have no comment
Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:27:28 EDT
already sent them a text




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:27:13 EDT
mine still seems to be working




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:26:48 EDT
you know I couldn't even say whether there is one




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:26:30 EDT
when those play loops come out. But it's not 100% yet




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:25:59 EDT
cannot comment




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:25:46 EDT
haha! I am catching !




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:25:37 EDT
​not yet




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:25:28 EDT
cannot comment yet




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:25:15 EDT
lol - don't got easy on me ! 3 mins now !




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:24:46 EDT
each web dev generally has min 3 years experience. Most are 10-15 years. Our Unity devs kick
arse .. pardon the language.. I am not going to comment on the tech Nathaniel previously built for
E2 but I can say we're very
happy with our P3 dev team




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:22:48 EDT
maybe into the holodecks at first




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:21:41 EDT
6 mins behind now




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:21:05 EDT
we're trying to build that foundation first! Initially it won't be a problem but long term we will adapt
systems from our social media platform into the E2 3D world as they mix




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:20:27 EDT
exactly




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:20:11 EDT
done




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:19:19 EDT
it will come soon. Looking at the first EcoSim building and the proprietary tech we're building to
ensure millions of them can stream world wide in real time




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:18:05 EDT
we are looking at opt in for this but cannot confirm yet




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:17:48 EDT
I can't comment on that but I would love to be responsible for achieving something along those
lines. I work hard for everyone here and I make sure my team does the same thing. As a team
we're all committed to creating E
2 for you guys and we all appreciate the ongoing support




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:16:48 EDT
yeah, I am kind of everything .. too much in my head lol .. I just don't know a lot about Jewels ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:15:58 EDT
we're looking at linking weather from E1 to E2 for different reasons but I can't confirm it will make it
to prod




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:15:27 EDT
Essence is key to almost everything




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:15:10 EDT
ahh .. I am 10 mins behind now
Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:14:49 EDT
I have already requested it with the dev team the other day




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:14:33 EDT
I know - I mean what in the world is a meta Shane? lol




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:13:33 EDT
I thought so too .. I actually though E2 Science Day once a year might be fun. Teach people about
things that may happen to the world without human intervention and raise awareness .. plus a lot
of fun. I guess this idea wil
l also appear on someone else's road map like most of the other ideas I throw out to the public
from time to time #copycats ...




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:11:56 EDT
it's all coming (not right away though!)
​Shane
 03/17/2022 at 12:11:12 EDT
 for our social media platform or .. ?




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:10:52 EDT
man you guys look at the details ..



Shane when have I ever thought that something was impossible ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:10:21 EDT
ok that might have been interpreted the wrong way .. I mean I have many plans for the future.
We're building the foundation first




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:09:35 EDT
well they are taking up a lot of my time that's what's happening lol .. work completed with the
Canadian firm now though




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:08:52 EDT
thank you very much - I appreciate your message




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:08:31 EDT
I know there are many things to consider but wait until we release more details




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:08:11 EDT
I'm glad you guys noticed that. I was under immense pressure not to do that .. but I made my
choice and stuck with it




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:07:26 EDT
this is something our new devs are developing and they are extremely talented ! We had to make
improvements to the old system .. it had flaws




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:06:18 EDT
my question is why isn't it ?! NICE !




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:06:04 EDT
feels like it.. I have never caught up before and I want to do it at least once lol




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:05:37 EDT
no date yet




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:05:16 EDT
8 mins behind now .. I am so competitive .. it's like a game. And I'm catching you guys !




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:04:52 EDT
it is the only thing taking a little longer than expected. Most others will be finished in Q2 on time.
We are implementing the Essence update in parts and I am not sure all will be completed by Q1




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:04:14 EDT
that is too cool not to implement ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:03:44 EDT
you might need to find NPC Shane .. lol




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:03:25 EDT
lol what does this mean ?




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:03:06 EDT
we are in this for the long run .. not worried about these trends




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:02:37 EDT
no lol
Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:02:22 EDT
I am very focused on building a metaverse for the Players .. the People's Metaverse .. if that
wasn't noticeable yet.




Shane
03/17/2022 at 12:01:19 EDT
I am not bothered - we know what we're doing
​Shane
 03/17/2022 at 12:00:45 EDT
 when have I ever thought that something was impossible ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:59:14 EDT
no comment right now




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:59:02 EDT
you could when they become NFTs I guess .. if that's really what you wanted to do with one




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:58:19 EDT
no comment does not mean confirmed ! lol




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:57:47 EDT
and more




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:57:18 EDT
you are..in a sense




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:57:14 EDT
I mean Droids




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:56:52 EDT
it is very interesting proprietary tech we have developed as a team




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:56:23 EDT
I think I'm 15 behind now .. surely the questions must run out some time soon lol




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:56:03 EDT
facts
Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:55:43 EDT
it's still updating into something else - ignore those values for now




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:55:23 EDT
thank you - means a lot to me. We plan to continue releasing details on what we're working on and
more features that build toward our end goal




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:54:22 EDT
sorry you'll need to wait for those details




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:54:05 EDT
no




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:52:31 EDT
you don't deserve pizza ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:51:27 EDT
I have passed that directly to our COO, I am sure he will action it as soon as he becomes
available. QA may have missed something




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:49:59 EDT
you should be!




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:49:45 EDT
we have different options and we're not fully committed to one or the other yet. I can't comment
further




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:49:21 EDT
we're building it. Please wait for more details




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:48:49 EDT
I am very aware of this and I am making decisions accordingly
​Shane
 03/17/2022 at 11:48:23 EDT
 I can say I want NPCs .. with a twist




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:47:51 EDT
thank you - I try to just keep it real and be myself




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:47:31 EDT
well, they are eggs




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:46:11 EDT
yes




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:46:00 EDT
no comment




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:45:40 EDT
the team is aware, I am not sure when it is planned for release




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:45:04 EDT
where am I ? I have accountants and lawyers keeping my schedule right now lol




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:44:13 EDT
we are working on tech that will allow Player created droids to follow you around on a global scale
inside of the Earth 2 metaverse




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:43:12 EDT
ahh .. I can see Jump to Present .. still 20 mins behind




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:42:16 EDT
we are working on this




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:41:58 EDT
Q3 doesn't mean April




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:41:45 EDT
yes, I am still up here lol - I think I am catching up .. a few mins ?




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:41:08 EDT
it's a good idea but I am not sure what we have planned
Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:40:37 EDT
I want it to be. But I can't promise for sure and I can't say when. I have ideas .. I would like e2.me
to go live first




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:39:09 EDT
please report to support. They will pass it to the dev team through the standard process




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:38:34 EDT
I can't give you a date




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:38:22 EDT
difficult question .. lol .. certainly not on my mind right now




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:37:50 EDT
I need one too .. can I come with you?
​#
Shane
general
03/17/2022 at 11:37:23 EDT
can use3atofATMs
Page 5 but there will be fees - we're not making money (or very little just for support) from those
fees. I don't know the full specs

Generated with Discrub

Shane

03/17/2022 at 11:36:44 EDT
no idea what this means




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:36:27 EDT
we are working on updates




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:36:12 EDT
incorrect




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:35:27 EDT
maybe we will be paying them? jk .. I am not sure what would happen in those cases but I imagine
they would get the upgrade for next to nothing
in the original cases until the value started moving for T1 land




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:34:38 EDT
answered above
Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:34:27 EDT
no, will not work like that sorry




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:34:07 EDT
because I am almost 30 mins behind in the gen chat ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:33:46 EDT
first batch will be limited to 10,000




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:33:25 EDT
already answered




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:33:15 EDT
it's on the road map




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:33:03 EDT
did I ?




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:32:58 EDT
thanks very much
​Shane
 03/17/2022 at 11:32:29 EDT
 I think that they are already aware of this




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:32:11 EDT
I can't disclose anything. We're just focused on building the tools first but we have had a number
of companies reach out to us




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:31:35 EDT
yes of course, but we're going to release just before the Player Validation System is ready for
production




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:31:02 EDT
there is a slim chance but I will wait to Q3 if we have to .. in order to get it right. Trust me, I want it
trading asap as well and the only reason I may
push it forward is to allow it to ease in .. but let's see. Probably Q3




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:29:47 EDT
I have 2 daughters and I am constantly talking to our design team about this. We will be building
more things to this extent




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:28:57 EDT
it will come - we have many things to build




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:28:19 EDT
I don't believe there are any in the Draft doc




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:27:57 EDT
oh and yes, my family and I are all well thank you. Though my youngest daughter came into my
home office earlier today and said "you shouldn't
do the T pose in your videos Dad.." which saddened me because I knew she said the youtube
video of those YTers ridiculing me. I had to ask her
not to search things about me on YT .. very sad.




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:26:26 EDT
we're really pumped these days to be honest. Making a lot of progress and finally getting the right
team members in place. Some people are just b
orn to be part of a start up and others not. I also decided I needed to be a bit harder and ensure
people are pulling their weight .. so much easier w
hen you have team members who want to build things and be successful I tell you




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:24:42 EDT
it depends how we do it. We want that cost, if anything, to be minimal




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:24:20 EDT
I can't promise anything




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:24:07 EDT
well, surely you can see the importance so far ..
​Shane
 03/17/2022 at 11:23:16 EDT
 those damn plot twists ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:22:57 EDT
cannot comment




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:22:45 EDT
please contact support
Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:22:24 EDT
yikes. .. we might have our work cut out for us... I am not sure what would occur under those
circumstances to be honest




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:20:42 EDT
there may be reasons .. but like any game, leaderboards are fun and for those who are doing
special things. There will be many more leaderboar
ds coming and they will be based around many different elements of the game. Sometimes a
leaderboard will be displayed for reasons though .. y
es




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:19:08 EDT
I think it's displayed there, maybe under disguise




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:18:38 EDT
earn it !




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:18:01 EDT
they are still there - you just might not be able to see them




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:17:28 EDT
every time I answer a question I need to scroll up and find where I was previously viewing




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:16:57 EDT
we are considering all of this




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:16:27 EDT
do you happen to have one?




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:14:31 EDT
we're showing a status for now ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:13:40 EDT
keep following us - we are showing progress and we want to provide 3D game play and NFT
minting as soon as possible too. Check out our road
map to get a better idea and for now, keep collecting Essence daily ..
​Shane
 03/17/2022 at 11:12:37 EDT
 the physical cards will have perks but will not be free .. we have to pay quite a lot for each card.
 MasterCard don't just give them away for free
Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:11:17 EDT
you know I can't answer that




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:10:31 EDT
you will receive your E$ prize - I am not working on that but I will chase it up tomorrow




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:09:15 EDT
I will make a note




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:08:42 EDT
we don't have plans for that at present. I can't rule rest periods out but not planned right now




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:07:22 EDT
we are certainly looking at these things, but designing a metaverse like E2 is complicated. We
need to ensure that new players also have pathway
s into the global E2 system




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:06:12 EDT
they will all come together, probably a little before we start minting tiles as NFTs




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:05:32 EDT
you'll know what to do if you solve it




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:05:10 EDT
damn guys .. I answered so many questions the other day and there are still more lol .. every time I
think I've caught up, there are more! It is cool t
hough ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:04:38 EDT
let's see what options are available in the future




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:03:16 EDT
it should not be affected by sea level. We have a legal team that keeps across those things but I
will pass it onto them now to ensure they are awa
re




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:02:06 EDT
hi @i2earth - thanks for your message. Once players can manually place their mentars




Shane
03/17/2022 at 11:01:32 EDT
​I will ask them tomorrow, but I am not keeping across the egg hunt details sorry




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:59:42 EDT
I would like a level up / badge system but we have other things to focus on first




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:59:11 EDT
I don't have plans to force people to eat to live .. and I am almost certain game design do not as
well




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:58:00 EDT
we are receiving advice on liquidity pooling and many other things. We're in good hands




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:57:21 EDT
interesting idea




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:56:49 EDT
you will see. I want E2 to be a key platform that provides centralise access to .. well everywhere of
.. anywhere on the web that someone finds sig
nificant enough to create a portal to ..




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:55:40 EDT
not sure - maybe one day lol




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:55:30 EDT
I answered this above




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:55:02 EDT
Eggs 3 and 4 are being challenged now I believe? I am not up to date with all the Egg Hunt stuff, I
have so many other things on my plate I am sor
ry. From what I understand challenges are being reviewed




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:53:59 EDT
easy to start, easy to experience, difficult to master .. earning more will be difficult - it can't be
easy. You'll see
Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:53:03 EDT
that's one of the things we're working on !




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:52:41 EDT
like that ?




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:52:38 EDT




Shane
​ 03/17/2022 at 10:52:00 EDT
 I'm sorry, I am not aware of those details. There may be plans for that but I am not aware of those
 plans




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:51:24 EDT
I love Player creation and I absolutely want to use our tech to support Player Creations they can
mint and sell to others. And we're not talking nor
mal NFTs, we're talking NFTs that work in a massive 3D world




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:50:18 EDT
do you want different events or a 3D world you can start to play in? The Egg Hunt causes minimal
disruption to our team and this will be the last o
ne in 2D




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:49:26 EDT
don't worry - I have some very interesting plans in this regard




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:49:03 EDT
will be traded on exchanges. E2 is where you can earn it




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:48:37 EDT
I would say very highly likely .. I cannot comment on the second question though




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:47:36 EDT
yes our team is reviewing the feedback and preparing reports. We are under a lot of time
constraints and have a lot of work on our shoulders. We
really appreciate the feedback and I am not sure we have time to reply to contributors




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:46:05 EDT
I can't answer that question yet - game design may kill me
Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:45:07 EDT
we have people who attack / laugh at us for 'being google maps with squares' .. we're proving
them wrong and building a 3D interactive metaverse
as a 1:1 digital twin of Earth. That's something to celebrate




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:43:22 EDT
if it looks like google earth then that is a massive compliment! This is all procedural .. we control it
.. it's not satellite imagery




Shane
03/17/2022 at 10:41:56 EDT
you didn't learn much about what you want to learn more about .. it's a dev vlog and if you listen to
the voiceover (for 5 mins) you'll learn a LOT! Th
is is very different from what we have shown before and we're using new proprietary tech we have
developed .. the tech we're building is a massiv
e bonus to all land Players own and should not be overlooked. We released a 40 page document
less than 4 weeks ago regarding Essence and
many other things. Let's just enjoy the releases as they come .. we're working on many things in
parallel




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:11:01 EDT
I have to get going now. Nice to see you all and hope you all have a good day. Keep safe and
thanks for the chat
​Shane
 03/15/2022 at 11:10:23 EDT
 I actually dropped in to say "I should be able to post a job advert on my twitter if I want to" and I
 got caught up lol I normally answer just about ever
 y question I receive, imagine how much is going on behind the scenes for me to be able to do that
 ? Blows my mind sometimes ..




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:08:51 EDT
we are working on transportation systems .. won't necessarily be that easy




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:08:22 EDT
we talk about this a lot internally .. we want some form of aesthetic cohesion that doesn't present
chaos so I wouldn't confirm we'd be doing that, w
hat second life does, just yet. What I can say is that our solution will be beautiful, work at scale, be
customisable (heavily) and include a large varie
ty of different types of digital assets. I would also say that player created content will be able to
enter e2 in different ways .. so let's leave it at that f
or now please




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:05:39 EDT
have already requested that feature earlier today




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:05:23 EDT
I kind of answered this above. It's a very complicated thing but we're working on some very
interesting solutions. Because we've already sold milli
ons of tiles we need to come up with game design that retrospectively fits sometimes .. like
building a second earth was not already hard enough




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:03:09 EDT
we want players to build on water too




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:02:48 EDT
answered above. I have already made that request




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:02:36 EDT
we will update them with some news once it's confirmed. Honestly we have so many internal
projects in motion at the same time there is just a lot
happening. DRONE is very important to us but we need to release some other updates first




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:00:17 EDT
already requested that




Shane
03/15/2022 at 11:00:01 EDT
none that I can give but it has to be cool




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:59:28 EDT
some projects launched their token 4 years before a game was playable




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:58:44 EDT
you'll see what's coming
​Shane
 03/15/2022 at 10:58:03 EDT

that's why we need updates beforehand ..




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:57:39 EDT
yes - that is when we plan to release




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:57:17 EDT
no problem and I understand. I respect you for being bilingual. T1 will remain strong. You will see
in the tokenomics sheet. T1 will produce more E
-ther / Essence (and if my proposed plan makes it through that will be always)




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:55:54 EDT
I have put in this request for added security on accounts that want it
Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:55:15 EDT
I can't confirm that




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:55:01 EDT
in a way they do because they give you increase % on your E-ther / Essence production over time
(or they will)




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:54:18 EDT
sorry I can't answer that right now




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:54:03 EDT
yes, there are some things going on in the background. Should be a little better now




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:53:38 EDT
that will come in Q2 just before we allow Player resource validation




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:52:54 EDT
do you have a support ticket?




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:52:20 EDT
just thinking about this but .. if you have 2FA enabled and someone is selling your property .. that
means your 2FA has already be breached




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:50:48 EDT
sorry, I am intrigued by your question but I don't fully understand what you're asking. Could you
please rephrase ?




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:49:29 EDT
good point - I will ensure our team have that recorded as a future feature
​Shane
 03/15/2022 at 10:48:42 EDT
 you'll have to wait and see




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:47:53 EDT
aim for Q2 .. we want to do it right and there are many moving pieces. Trust me, I just want to get
Essence live and trading so we can put full focu
s back to building things (or I can)
Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:46:32 EDT
I do want a portion to go back into supply - you'll see how it all works when we release the
tokenomics system. I created the foundation for it and h
ave had multiple tokenomic pros say they actually love it .. we'll see




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:45:18 EDT
oh boy .. it's out now




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:44:53 EDT
thank you very much. I really do not feel confident making those videos and I know people will
ridicule me .. but then I think I am just making for th
ose that want to listen and I shouldn't alter my intention based on those that would seek to mock
me, rather speak out for those that want to listen




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:43:29 EDT
well funny you say that . .and I can't give you a direct answer .. but I know internally we have been
likening it to 'the force' .. has come from some
very creative minds we have




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:42:31 EDT
that's awesome! And for such a good cause ! I want to buy some !




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:41:47 EDT
ok - I need to clear this up. There was NO delay to development (or very minimal), the video I
made was not making an excuse for delays at all! It
was more about a team morale thing so we could all get on the same page and know we are
building something that will help the future of E1. Our
team are still working like mad




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:40:19 EDT
well if they knew the answer they would know what to do




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:39:54 EDT
I'd say it's a significant update and it will pave the way for something much bigger we have coming
(hopefully) by the end of the year)




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:39:14 EDT
nobody solved that yet .. no hint sorry, prize is quite considerable




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:38:14 EDT
similar kind of things and will probably expand to some things which are much larger I would
imagine
​Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:37:30 EDT
there are a lot of plans for Jewels .. they won't just stop as being used on Mentars




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:36:55 EDT
haha .. that would have to make the news?




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:36:28 EDT
expANsive! You guys are thinking with your wallets there ! .............




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:35:57 EDT
yes, we kind of skip those formalities




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:35:27 EDT
maybe! lol




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:35:07 EDT
is this a trick question? I actually grew up around trains .. my great-grandfather was a driver of the
Flying Scotsman and he passed that love of trai
ns onto my grandfather (his son). Interesting you ask that question but still not sure whether it's
some kind of trick question or not




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:33:30 EDT
sorry, I cannot answer this question. I wouldn't speculate too much on this though




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:32:47 EDT
we don't want users to spike too much right now. We know when, where and how that will happen




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:32:08 EDT
EPLs will allow players to transport directly to that property. We're working on complicated (VERY
FREAKING COMPLICATED) transportation sys
tems for transportation of 'things'. It will make the game play very interesting / challenging and
open up a number of possibilities. We want players
to collaborate for mutual gain. Larger properties will definitely have a bigger advantage from the
EcoSim perspective .. but you get what you pay fo
r




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:29:34 EDT
this week




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:29:19 EDT
not yet - but we are working on a size system
Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:29:06 EDT
that's why it's speculation ..




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:28:23 EDT
​that would be really good but we don't have the legal ability to do that. It will come in future game
 play though .. you'll have your change and thank
 you for the kind thinking / heart




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:27:43 EDT
if you think I'm going anywhere near that question .. I'd prefer to pick up a rattle snake ..




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:26:52 EDT
I cannot guarantee the answer but I would say it means the first to upgrade would get it cheap ..
and then the price will gradually rise as more upgr
ade




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:26:16 EDT
LOL




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:25:48 EDT
the smallest ecosim building will take up 1 tile. You'll start to see visuals on these buildings with
details on the tech soon




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:24:51 EDT
yes any application. The team will review them all




Shane

03/15/2022 at 10:24:22 EDT
get your sleep




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:24:03 EDT
1 - I don't know enough details 2 - yes, we're working on that




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:23:34 EDT
I can never say if something was a bad play or not. Everyone is playing a game that is in
development .. that is the blessing and curse of E2. We d
idn't disappear and say "see you in 4 years" .. we decided to keep running and upgrade the engine
offering opportunity to those who want to be pa
rt of the ride. You could look at it as "well, if they disappeared and came back with a game 4 years
later I would have had nothing". I can't say if it's
good or bad, I think everything we're giving is just good right now




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:20:46 EDT
overwhelmed but much smoother and we have a really good team culture starting to grow with
recent changes we've made and continue to make




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:18:15 EDT
we have @ampersanddotsys




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:17:44 EDT
it's coming from what I am told. T1 will spawn higher level jewels. I can't tell you exactly when,
devs are under the pump




Shane
03/15/2022 at 10:16:39 EDT
awesome! I was barracking for you !
​Shane
 03/15/2022 at 10:15:22 EDT
 we do use other methods. Not sure why it means I can't put a tweet out there after having an
 awesome 2.5hr meeting with 5 of my internal team h
 eads .. I just felt like posting it. Does not mean we aren't pursuing other avenues.




Shane
03/14/2022 at 02:53:27 EDT
have a great day everyone - keep safe




Shane
03/14/2022 at 02:53:08 EDT
I will ask the game design team handling Jewels so hopefully will have an answer for you next time
I drop in




Shane
03/14/2022 at 02:52:17 EDT
no plans to release exact players right now. I will review once more once the final QA is done but I
will likely remove Player ranked Essence until
a later date when we have an opt in option ready




Shane
03/14/2022 at 02:51:28 EDT
higher tiered Jewels or more Jewels?




Shane
03/14/2022 at 02:50:17 EDT
sorry guys - just popped in and saw those messages. No comment on countries lol .. back to work




Shane
03/14/2022 at 02:49:48 EDT
skip through the video and you'll see the sun (and other things) moving. It's not a green screen




Shane
03/14/2022 at 02:49:24 EDT
jobs@earth2.io please . It will get picked up




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:47:05 EST
Droids help people




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:46:44 EST
I'd love to stay and chat guys but I promised to spend some time with my family on Sunday (and
it's almost 5am now .. they will be waiting for me
to wake up) so I need to grab some sleep now




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:45:43 EST
we are working on significant updates to that tech - I'd like the AR to be linked




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:44:51 EST
well, we're kind of building something that might let the community even create things like that




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:44:12 EST
​I think as Essence becomes more valuable (fingers crossed) we will see a lot of people spend a lot
 of time on the E2 platform. I personally have so
 me interesting ideas on keeping people active in the real world too and by doing so take part in E2




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:42:36 EST
you know I can't answer that




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:42:23 EST
there are benefits for the classes. From a game design perspective we need to ensure those
benefits are not crazily over powered .. but we're wor
king on things that will set them apart. Additionally, to date, higher classes have already received
much higher LIT




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:40:57 EST
so Players can see the progress of Essence accumulate on the properties (i.e smaller properties
can also accumulate Essence over time as oppo
sed to the previous spawn rate algorithm )




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:40:08 EST
yes, we are working on concepts but first we'd really like to finish the first version of our 3D world
so we can kick off real time game play




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:39:24 EST
thank you




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:39:12 EST
yeah that was pretty crazy - I need to hire a video editor I think. I don't have one right now so the
solution was to do it non-stop lol




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:38:47 EST
I cannot really say too much on that. But what is spent can surely be earned again with some
effort




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:37:34 EST
thank you - I was not sure whether people would like it or not .. I'm not a very good speaker .. I am
more the creative type (who is not so good at p
ublic speaking) but under the circumstances I felt the need to make this video personally




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:36:15 EST
Motis will have some soon I think lol .. and I will see what I can do to get some ready for public too
I guess




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:35:32 EST
Dan must have forgotten to respond to you. I gave the ok. I will ping him now




Shane
03/12/2022 at 13:33:14 EST
Ok - so to clarify the video footage of the dev vlog has been ready since early November 2021 (or
even Oct). Voice over was done early Decembe
r. We don't always release things as soon as it's ready. The situation in Ukraine was not an
excuse because we didn't have the video ready, that i
s disgusting .. We had planned to post the video after the draft whitepaper went public and then
war broke out 2 days after that happened .. so I ce
rtainly didn't want to push out positive updates when our team members are caught up in conflict
and because of this, we fast tracked a pledge for
future plans we had for Earth 2 to help Earth 1, acknowledged our team members caught up in
conflict and made sure they are ok, released this v
ideo and we will hopefully feel good continuing on from here
​Shane
 03/12/2022 at 13:27:30 EST
 exactly




Shane
03/10/2022 at 09:01:08 EST
right - but we didn't have time to work in that feature as we had other things to build / fix
Shane
03/10/2022 at 09:00:48 EST
it's ok - I rescheduled it for tomorrow




Shane
03/10/2022 at 09:00:30 EST
tiles create tile art ..




Shane
03/10/2022 at 09:00:03 EST
to be honest, we couldn't block second accounts due to tile art creators. We will work out a long
term solution for it but I at least wanted to provide
you with a reason why




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:59:03 EST
sorry guys, I haven't been sleeping well and I promised my kids I would see them off to school in
the morning. I have a few more things to do and t
hen I need to call it a night




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:57:32 EST
if I spent my time worrying about these things we wouldn't be building our own thing. Those big
corporations are going to do what they are going t
o do. I want to create a metaverse that is owned by the players and I don't think they will ever (or
can ever) go for that option .. so I'm happy with
what our end goal is and going to continue focusing on product




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:55:32 EST
ok I will ask someone to chase it up




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:55:09 EST
more




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:53:57 EST
that could be true. I will ask them




Shane

03/10/2022 at 08:53:20 EST
I don't know a lot about the specific Jewels - the game design team handle that




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:52:39 EST
I can then pass it on to relevant team members




Shane
​ 03/10/2022 at 08:52:32 EST
is there a support ticket # you have?




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:51:55 EST
no and yes




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:51:35 EST
what is the bug?




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:51:22 EST
this is something we want to calculate correctly. Please bear with us




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:50:38 EST
yes, we do plan to update the ads in the near future




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:49:34 EST
I would want one .. we'll have Droids first




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:49:02 EST
we are not confirming these details yet I'm sorry




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:48:13 EST
we will have our own 3D planet the size of this Earth ..




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:47:09 EST
the standard player can enjoy experiences. Other players that want to play to earn will have ways
of owning things inside of E2 through their play t
o earn




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:45:51 EST
I can't confirm yet. We are leaning toward a class still but I can't confirm one way or the other right
now




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:44:52 EST
everyone has their exit point




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:44:21 EST
I am not sure what this is but our team release fixes every 2 weeks or so
Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:44:03 EST
thank you




Shane
​ 03/10/2022 at 08:43:56 EST
 she said she will look into it




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:43:48 EST
please send the details to Liz




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:43:25 EST
the team will check it. I assure you




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:43:09 EST
upgraded first if there are any Class benefits (IF - I am not promising yet)




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:41:39 EST
2022 for sure. It will be one of the utilities for Essence




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:40:20 EST
yes, this is what we're leaning toward




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:39:55 EST
the Sydney team have updated the list based on what Liz provided https://earth2.io/news/winners-
runners-up-of-the-earth2egghunt2022 . We are
waiting for Liz to confirm so if there are any issues the team will check tomorrow




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:38:37 EST
we are still working on that part so I cannot answer yet. T1, T2 etc are worked out. We just need to
figure out what to do with Classes in T1




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:37:36 EST
at first it will be simply by submission and our team will validate




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:36:37 EST
of course we do! If you compare us with other smaller scale metaverse projects (that have been
extremely successful - i.e Sandbox, Decentraland
etc). We're actually making faster progress but we're being hounded publicly for it .. it's a lot of
stress




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:34:39 EST
if everything we are working on now then yes, we'd have a playable game. These things take time
but. We're trying not to rush things




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:33:37 EST
that's why we're working on a big update to the landing page




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:32:43 EST
we're not ready to announce anything yet
​Shane
 03/10/2022 at 08:32:10 EST
 not sure that it will replace our existing socials immediately but over time new features will bring
 new options




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:31:29 EST
sorry to hear that Pacey. Hope you're feeling better soon




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:30:55 EST
I am not sure what you mean about the conversion to class 1?




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:30:26 EST
yes, and 2022 is bringing you all of that. Just let us focus on doing our thing. We're solving
complicated problems and we want all 3 to be as perfec
t as possible




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:29:18 EST
you could actually create a pirate ship with the Droid Editor




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:28:46 EST
flying cars, spaceships etc..




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:27:16 EST
yes - this is not easy




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:24:39 EST
thank you. I cancelled a meeting and jumped in here to try and calm people down. The egg hunt
really is just something to add a challenge to ann
ouncements
Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:23:26 EST
watch our first dev vlog video coming out over the next week. We talk about why we can't just use
google earth or satellite images




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:21:53 EST
and we have talented individuals working on much bigger problems such as streaming a digital 3D
world based on real world data and is the sam
e size as the real world. Perfectly matching tile locations, being able to see megacities from space
.. you know .. all that type of stuff




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:20:14 EST
I am not trying to. Someone suggested it and I welcomed the suggestion. Why twist my words?




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:19:12 EST
I will ask the dev team about this. I was under the impression it had been resolved. I remember
asking them multiple times




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:18:15 EST
I disagree. Many Players researched and bought land where they thought resources exist on E1. If
we just place resources anywhere then there w
​ould be thousands of upset players. We're honouring our promise and creating a system that gives
 the Player the opportunity to report and for oth
 ers to validate with rewards. I don't see what is wrong with us honouring this promise




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:16:17 EST
no - I didn't say that. Once the challenge period is over it's over




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:14:46 EST
this ..




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:13:17 EST
someone suggested it and I said I am open to the idea. We could use that list and compare with
our internal list which would hopefully result in a
more accurate list and less upset people




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:12:26 EST
and then everyone will be fighting to report the list ..




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:11:18 EST
if you can collaborate with a few willing community members and supply a list that would be
amazing




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:10:32 EST
we have a lot of gameplay coming but we need our foundation first .. we have provided a road map
people can review. We have a few more featur
es to release this year and the Resource Validation period as we build toward releasing our 3D
world, then we can ramp up with a lot more game
play




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:09:05 EST
over the next 7 days it will be published. I just need to release another video first about E2's
pledge to build a system that will help E1




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:08:03 EST
won't be another until next week I think.




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:07:48 EST
it is incredibly difficult ..




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:07:28 EST
thank you. We are going to start the dev vlog videos again and publish more regularly. I find these
videos very interesting, hope everyone else do
es too when they're published




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:05:51 EST
we published what we received. It would be really cool if a few members in the community could
create an initial list - I would be happy to use that
too as a first list but that depends on whether you guys want to dedicate some time to doing this




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:04:32 EST
​if it doesn't bounce back it's been received




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:04:05 EST
please email the challenge to challenge@earth2.io so the team can review in one place




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:03:38 EST
yes, of course




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:02:31 EST
people can challenge - that is the process we made for this Egg Hunt so Players can challenge the
results. We have already received numerous e
mails of challenges for Egg3 and Egg4 and we have them all in one place to review. The Sydney
team will review those as they come in




Shane
03/10/2022 at 08:00:29 EST
I literally missed a meeting for this .. as you could appreciate Liz and Kieran are no longer official
CMs and until we have the official new CM onb
oarded there will be some transitional issues.




Shane
03/10/2022 at 07:58:30 EST
sorry, I have been chatting with Liz and the team member in the Sydney office to find out exactly
what went wrong from both sides. Seems there
was a misunderstanding and Liz did send the list but it was mistaken for another list. The Sydney
team are working on updating the list now




Shane
03/10/2022 at 07:42:44 EST
I am not sure what you mean?




Shane
03/10/2022 at 07:41:28 EST
I agree. It was only supposed to be for a little fun to include a challenge in announcements.
Seeing people upset is certainly not the intended resul
t. I will consider this and maybe postpone Egg Hunts until we have them hidden inside our 3D
world where if you find it and claim it, it will automati
cally be added to your account




Shane
03/10/2022 at 07:38:38 EST
we have only published the list we received from Liz - this will be looked into




Shane
03/10/2022 at 07:37:45 EST
I know that we just published the last list we received from Liz but that may have been the wrong
list. We're waiting for Liz to confirm




Shane
03/10/2022 at 07:36:53 EST
you mean Egg #1 ?




Shane
03/10/2022 at 07:35:42 EST
I heard there was some backlash in here. I just published the list I was provided with and that was
the list provided to our Sydney office. I have too
many things to handle, I am not involved with deciding who won which egg. @nftswizz.sats which
egg are you adamant you found but have not b
een awarded?




Shane
​ 03/01/2022 at 18:05:46 EST
this is so cool .. I have a soft spot for the support for women and children especially .. thank you
for your ongoing effort




Shane
03/01/2022 at 18:05:19 EST
I have to get back to work guys. Was great catching up and keep safe !




Shane
03/01/2022 at 18:04:52 EST
the community and the likeminded people we have managed to bring together. If we can keep
building tools and features and maintain this type of
community we are bound for big things




Shane
03/01/2022 at 18:03:24 EST
definitely - but into the future




Shane
03/01/2022 at 18:03:13 EST
thank you - we are safe




Shane
03/01/2022 at 18:03:01 EST
I certainly do not think I deserve that comparison lol




Shane
03/01/2022 at 18:01:14 EST
I can't comment on that now




Shane
03/01/2022 at 18:01:00 EST
I answered a lot of your questions I believe. I can't answer everything and I'm not going to
comment on whether I think something was valued corr
ectly. People buy things for different reasons. When I play games I want to get the rarest things,
people have different reasons to buy things and I'
m not going to question what someone else values over someone else




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:59:42 EST
I surely hope not! Most people don't get this opportunity in their lifetime and I'd love to build
something that can live on forever. I'd like to work out
ways for E2 to function inside of Web3 but baby steps, we have other things we need to work out
first




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:58:30 EST
it's on the cards




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:58:18 EST
keep safe !
Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:58:05 EST
lol - it will be vested and released periodically so that we're rewarding not only people who are on
the project but who stay with the project




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:57:12 EST
we are constantly releasing fixes for various browsers. Maybe try a different browser for now until
we release a fix for Chrome
​Shane
 03/01/2022 at 17:56:31 EST
 I am sure they will come back at some point. It's their property though .. we can't take it from them




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:55:55 EST
I am not sure actually. I was considering that the other day and forget to check the db




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:55:13 EST
well that is a longer term goal, I cannot say when exactly




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:54:56 EST
lol - an anti cheat guy reached out to me on LinkedIn the other day.




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:54:27 EST
we are working on a launcher for other parts




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:54:13 EST
it won't include functions on the website. It's a communication tool so parts will be connected




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:53:19 EST
we are hoping to release the first version of Earth 2 digitalised this year. Will include a LOT more
to do !




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:52:42 EST
I agree. I am the one who added it in there lol




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:52:14 EST
entire social media app coming




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:51:51 EST
I can't say more right now. I just added that because I think you all do a great job and wanted to
reward your effort




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:51:11 EST
message Liz or Kieran and they might pass the request on




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:50:43 EST
I can't comment on that otherwise people will expect an answer to every area




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:50:27 EST
I'm all good now thanks. Negative result now so I did
​Shane
 03/01/2022 at 17:50:06 EST
 there will be a system to get added later. Is done manually for now




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:49:41 EST
that was my initial feel too lol




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:49:28 EST
yes, we are reviewing this. I said it will likely be opt in AND even with opt in, it would be for control
of a territory not to destroy a building. There will
be filters !




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:48:28 EST
not sure where I mentioned 1000s of tiers for Jewels? Thousands of recipes .. yes




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:47:32 EST
if we did and we opted in for PvP .. can you imagine how many Players would attack (and maybe
defend?) us lol




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:46:46 EST
we need to set foundations first. The social media app will have elements of AR but we want to
provide a platform where external AR projects can
also deploy to E2




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:46:09 EST
100% ! I want to implement v1 for this solution sooner than later




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:45:49 EST
ideally we will have a system where players can benefit from opting in. We have not decided yet ..




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:45:21 EST
we are not committing to a time just yet




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:44:58 EST
I think we have enough ambitions right now lol




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:44:43 EST
We have not confirmed T3 but not ruled it out either. IF (and big IF) we did release T3 at any more
it would be part of the EcoSim and play to earn
in order to reach those higher tier properties with better performance




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:43:25 EST
I am not responding to Binance's involvement in this case but just to your concept. If something
like this were to happen, in my ideal solution they
would need to collaborate with EcoSim Players who would then work their land to generate / claim
the Essence. Moving forward there may be mo
re Essence available but it will be more difficult to process meaning big players should collaborate
with smaller players for mutual gain




Shane
​ 03/01/2022 at 17:41:17 EST
 me too - but advertising is part of life. Our team is designing around this anyway




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:40:51 EST
you should be able to sell them anywhere




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:40:28 EST
I am not sure whether updated versions will support this but we want to encourage creativity
everywhere possible




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:39:42 EST
a massive Market Place is schedule for end of year. That will be big




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:38:03 EST
we are not committing to any figures on the value of Essence. It will be player traded and
determined. I have pointed out in the past that I don't se
e an issue with a low price - we are just focused on building things for E2




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:36:14 EST
yes, I agree. I stepped back from doing that around mid last year and I regret it. I am jumping back
into it this year and making a point to be heavily
involved with the creative / product side again. That's where I like to be




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:34:54 EST
we have plans to improve all of our features and the editor is one of those. People are still creating
amazing things with the one we have now




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:34:13 EST
my sleeping pattern changes weekly .. I am just on this time schedule atm




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:33:42 EST
by the end of the year I want to have one of plans implemented for a Megamarket (more details
will come)




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:33:09 EST
HB marketplace is coming and EPLs will follow




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:32:27 EST
I looked at it the other day and was pretty frustrated to be honest. There are a number of changes
I would like to make quickly and I am trying to s
pend more time on product / features these days. Hopefully 8 weeks or so it should be updated
(don't hold me)




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:30:38 EST
that looks so cool!




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:30:18 EST
a completely revamped version is coming
​Shane
 03/01/2022 at 17:29:48 EST
 it may change depending on some of the economics we work out. We want to create an
 environment where people also want to spend their Esse
 nce, not just hold and wait for the price to go up




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:28:34 EST
yes, it's in the pipeline




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:28:05 EST
we thought about it early on but legal are reviewing whether we're allowed to do that or not




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:27:29 EST
I am safe but it is crazy. The river rose 3.5m and there have been a few deaths.




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:25:19 EST
that hasn't changed, probably and oversight




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:24:52 EST
I know the team is aware of things related to single tiles but I am not sure it's as advantageous as
it seems and while 1 tile properties won't be use
less, larger properties will have more utility longer term




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:23:16 EST
yes, I wrote that




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:22:20 EST
ok .. not sure how that looks lol




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:20:47 EST
creating a guild to conquer and try to control territories for as long as possible to get a % of
production. Or .. huge defence systems on my properti
es lol




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:19:21 EST
there will be more don't worry




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:18:52 EST
I can't comment on that sorry. It's part of game design that is a WIP and I don't know enough to
give a good enough answer




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:18:00 EST
can I time travel to that point in time please?




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:17:23 EST
that has always been the plan, we have just not confirmed the exact benefits yet. (the plan for
them to have SOME utility, even if it's for a bit of fun
)​




Shane

03/01/2022 at 17:16:07 EST
I can't say exactly. There may be benefits on class but I am not sure so not saying anything for
certain
Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:15:34 EST
worked out then caught up in work .. cannot find time to balance but I am trying




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:14:51 EST
interesting point




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:13:38 EST
it will be funny one day




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:12:50 EST
I am not playing any card here. I mentioned it casually in a Discord chat .. we didn't even promise
an exact date on the video being released. I was
simply sharing some details with the community more to point out that we have developers caught
up in the conflict and we should be thinking of t
hem




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:11:23 EST
I can't do everything lol




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:10:58 EST
I'd like to see it happen a lot sooner, if even just to get it live so it can start trading




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:10:04 EST
I agree and pointed that out to the person in charge of this area




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:09:37 EST
certainly have not ruled anything out with eggs!




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:09:09 EST
please feel free to believe as you wish. I have provided my answer




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:08:32 EST
we have opportunities but the general feel is we should list on a DEX first




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:08:07 EST
well, it should probably be owned by the community ?
Shane
​ 03/01/2022 at 17:07:42 EST
 there are no people in the video. It's just that I didn't feel right releasing something positive like that
 considering the situation in Ukraine and especi
 ally considering we have team members caught up there. I will say that we have Russian and
 Ukrainian developers and some of our key Russian
 developers reached out to make sure we're supporting our Ukrainian developers. Everyone is
 upset from what is taking place and it didn't feel righ
 t to push out positive content so close to all of this taking place




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:05:34 EST
it's on my agenda to review later today. My EA started maternity leave recently and there's been a
little transition period with the person filling in s
o it was missed during the regular schedule




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:03:08 EST
yes, we have already discussed that with a few team members. We have enough space in one of
our Brisbane offices




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:02:07 EST
I have explained above. It doesn't feel right and we have developers caught up in the conflict.




Shane
03/01/2022 at 17:01:37 EST
sorry about that but we're hoping for some new players to get a chance to buy tiles early on when
countries are released




Shane
03/01/2022 at 16:59:21 EST
no - it's new tech we've been working on to stream the entire world without using satellite data.
Just showcasing a first version of that




Shane
03/01/2022 at 16:58:20 EST
once we have our final economics worked out we will be able to reward with accurate backdated
averages




Shane
03/01/2022 at 16:56:25 EST
I won't take that one. The video is of tech we developed last year and has been ready for months.
We just wanted to release it after the draft paper
was out and then kick off more regular dev vlogs. That is the genuine reason it was delayed




Shane
03/01/2022 at 16:53:36 EST
hey everyone. I hope you’re all well. Just because we have reduced the number of team members
directly connected with the public does not mea
n ‘our entire senior team has quit because they know something the community doesn’t know’.
Moving forward, we didn’t want to put any addition
al pressure on team members / new team members. We learned our lesson from that in the past
where that direct, public interaction lead to all kin
ds of problems including low productivity, loss of focus, sense of entitlement that was thrown
around internally at other team members and the list
goes on. Can you imagine being in a situation where it’s difficult to fire someone because the
community will react without knowing the full picture,
yet for confidentiality reasons you cannot disclose the actual reasons that person is no longer on
the project? We want to avoid that and keep the
people working on the project, FOR the project, focused on the tasks at hand and not with the
leverage they can pull due to the external public foll
owing they have built up. If we part ways with someone there are reasons for doing so. Liz and
Kieran are two people who started off as early E2
Players who became (very helpful) MODs and slowly moved into CM roles because E2
acknowledged their ongoing effort and wanted to pay them
for what they were doing. I remember reaching out to them and telling them “you guys do so much
for the community we’d just like to be paying yo
u so there is some form of reward in it for you as well”. This is how they became Community
Managers for Earth2, and though they have done an
amazing job, it is not their choice of profession, they have other fields of expertise and are within
their right to want to move onto other things. The
y also became very close to Thomas and I am sure for them things do not feel the same (as we
know Thomas wanted to move onto other things).
This is not something that suddenly happened, Kieran and Liz let us know some time ago. We
have been searching for a replacement but we wan
t to ensure that replacement does an outstanding job for E2 and it is taking some time, so this is
not something that Kieran and Liz just sprung on
us suddenly and they had no idea about the contents of the draft paper we released last week
when they first informed us on the above details
many weeks ago. We are in deep discussions with a multinational company who are looking to
create and deliver a 'Social Media Playbook' prior t
o commencing any actual Community Management for Earth 2. This will ensure alignment and
clarification on the 'rules of engagement' and impor
tantly provide the 'blue print' or 'guard rails' needed so that anyone in the role is able to execute
according to our strategy. So we may move forwa
​rd with that company or others that we have ongoing discussions with, there has been no final
 decision just yet and Kieran and Liz have been kind
 enough to ensure they stay around a little longer to help the transition. I understand people don’t
 like change and their first reaction is to create ne
 gative scenarios as to why personnel are changing, but this is a normal part of life, we are still a
 very young project – we started with an initial tea
 m and it is normal for that team to evolve in order for us to get the right balance and achieve the
 goals set out before us. We are making really go
 od progress internally after recent changes and additions to the team, in fact better progress than
 last year so the changes we’ve been experienci
 ng are having a positive effect. There is higher morale and a better sense of getting things done. I
 had planned to release the first video of the new
 dev vlog series early this week but it just didn’t feel right with all that is happening in Ukraine and
 the fact we have a number of developers based i
 n that area of the world, so we will delay that release a little. We have members of our team who
 are actively involved with what is taking place an
 d it’s very disheartening.




Shane
02/25/2022 at 14:03:07 EST
gotta get back to work guys. I hope everyone is well.




Shane
02/25/2022 at 14:02:43 EST
I hope to hear some good news from you soon. Hang in there .. and please look at getting a dog.
Some people need animals. Female dog would b
e best, they are much more affectionate which is what you would likely expect. You are most
welcome, the honour is mine.




Shane
02/25/2022 at 14:01:07 EST
he'll have to play the game (or get his workers to EcoSim Co-op with him lol)
Shane
02/25/2022 at 14:00:17 EST
LOL! If that ever happens I'll dance some form of a jig .. (I hate dancing!). Thanks for the kind
sentiment though




Shane
02/25/2022 at 13:51:18 EST
(For the record, I have 2 pet dogs now and though I know I will have to go through that loss again
one day, at least I get to spend good times with
them, laugh with (and at) them and experience that bond again)




Shane
02/25/2022 at 13:50:41 EST
yes, female dogs are much more affectionate and I can imagine what a close bond you had with
your pet. My pet dog of 7 years died in my arms i
n 2020.. it can be a very traumatic experience. Even though I have a wife and 3 kids, the house
felt SO empty after he left.. the void was incredibly
strong and I thought about not wanting to go through that experience again as well. I realise you
don’t want to move on, you must have an incredib
le amount of loyalty to your pet dog (your girlfriend is a lucky lady!), but do you feel that your dog
loved you back? Of course she did .. so what do
you think your dog would feel seeing you in the state you’re currently in? Why keep trying to
replace a void with something else if it doesn't fit / wor
k? If getting another pet, even one similar to her, would help fill some of that void then I am sure
she would want that too. I do not mean any disres
pect to your pet dog, but some people just need animals around them to feel happy and well .. you
might be one of those people. Keep strong and
I hope you fill that void soon and regain some happiness.




Shane
02/24/2022 at 00:33:02 EST
have a good day everyone




Shane
02/24/2022 at 00:32:56 EST
Sorry, I was literally about to catch a quick nap, not slept well lately.. I just thought I'd ask that
question before going to bed. Stupid sleeping time s
chedules as usual .. it's 3:30pm here lol




Shane
02/24/2022 at 00:32:06 EST
I am not sure on the details. A team is working on that.
​Shane
 02/24/2022 at 00:31:54 EST
 thank you. I know I don't look the part and seems some decided to focus on that, but it's who I am
 and I felt like I should deliver that message




Shane
02/24/2022 at 00:27:43 EST
I didn't say I was going to action whatever the vote is. I want to get general opinion and read
people's thoughts more than anything else. My desig
n team added it and I was against it so I thought I might ask the community and see what people
generally think. Transparency is cool but I agree
there needs to be a limit. Please don't burn me for asking the E2 community a question




Shane
02/22/2022 at 08:02:00 EST
literally bawling here guys .. reading your messages .. ahh the emotions are that much worse
when you're tired. I was under a lot of pressure to do
a pre-sale but I wanted to stick with the Players and put you guys first. Let's see how it all works
out. So long as I can I will be making decisions th
at will somehow benefit E2 and the Players. Back to work but keep an eye out for that document.




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:35:13 EST
ok - I really need to go now. Hope you all have a good day and please keep an eye out for the
locked country announcement, it will have more det
ails




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:34:40 EST
sounds good!




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:34:27 EST
we will show detection first - then players can decide whether they need to validate or not




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:33:48 EST
I was invited to some launch things in Spain in March (I think). When I get time I will start travelling
again and will definitely drop into Korea - I love
the food there!




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:32:00 EST
I'll try to get answers back out there once I receive them


Shane we can set the supply and cap but not the price ... it will be traded on external exchanges




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:30:26 EST
we're just focused on rolling out the E2 Metaverse step by step and trying not to mess up along
the way




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:29:42 EST
we can set the supply and cap but not the price ... it will be traded on external exchanges




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:29:03 EST
as mentioned in the announcement, we're looking to launch validation Q2. I am pushing for this to
come earlier




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:28:33 EST
​no idea - it will be traded outside of our control. We won't set a price, the market will decide
Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:28:06 EST
thanks very much for your message. Actually I should go and tuck her in now, hope she's not
fallen to sleep




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:27:32 EST
I still think the same way ..




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:26:43 EST
only had one photo .. I don't take many photos ..




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:26:33 EST
ok changed it. Lol .. whoops




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:25:02 EST
the CM team are working on it.




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:24:43 EST
exactly !




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:24:28 EST
I would love this too




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:24:11 EST
there will be many ways to burn Essence. We are working on it having a hard cap though there is
still an internal argument for an inflationary mod
el. We will likely go with a hard cap




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:22:46 EST
from what I understand they will. I think it's listed on the earth2.io/edc as well




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:21:40 EST
sorry ,I need to screenshot this and ask game design. I am not sure on the answer




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:20:34 EST
I believe I have stated we are working on the release of a whitepaper and that will contain details
on many things. All blockchain projects have a r
oadmap (not sure if that is 100% accurate) because they needed to sell their dream from day one
to make it happen. We launched our dream and
people just got it, and it went viral. Roadmaps are great and the WhitePaper will provide more
details, but why would we also want to share upcom
ing plans with rivals who try to sabotage our project .. not to mention the copy cats. We are
showing more progress, there are more things coming

and it kind of makes sense to maintain some stealth with some of the plans we have coming up




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:17:03 EST
I still don't think anyone has solved this
​Shane
 02/10/2022 at 06:16:49 EST
 no problem. Thanks for understanding




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:15:52 EST
I have taken a screenshot and sent to the relevant dept. Will follow up on this




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:15:15 EST
that is ironic .. I wish it were intentional




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:14:06 EST
ok I will. I was in a meeting today where someone screen shared HB art and I was blown away .. I
had not seen that .. was amazing




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:13:21 EST
I honestly don't know the answer to this question. We have full time staff working in game design. I
can't keep across everything but I do have
confidence with their judgement and I am sure they do not want Jewels to become useless




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:12:01 EST
that would be cool




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:11:34 EST
yes, I did




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:11:16 EST
we're trying to build the engine and let people ride at the same time... so initially it means that the
way resources are discovered and gathered no
w might be very different in the future when parts of P3 roll out. As with Essence, you can expect
those who play early to have an easier time getti
ng something but as the platform progresses it will become more difficult and involve more effort /
planning / collaboration




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:09:15 EST
ahh I see .. yes well it was a pretty bad typo in the end.. I should have re-read the tweet




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:08:05 EST
there are hundreds of millions of data records we've sourced and implemented with our team.
Please wait until they go live (announcement will co
me beforehand) and check to see whether your property falls into place first




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:06:45 EST
how do you know that ?




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:06:28 EST
one for me ?
​Shane
 02/10/2022 at 06:05:54 EST
 is all good. I will pass on your kind messages to her and will tuck her in shortly. I promised here
 we will do the birthday cake tomorrow




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:03:56 EST
I have taken a screenshot of this and sent directly to the relevant department. I will ensure they
look into it




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:00:43 EST
I can't give you insight on that but wait until we first release our data - then you will see if you need
to claim or not




Shane
02/10/2022 at 06:00:00 EST
it's already cancelled. We had to walk out because I thought I needed to get back to my PC and
say something in here




Shane
02/10/2022 at 05:59:32 EST
I am not sure what doesn't work?




Shane
02/10/2022 at 05:59:04 EST
ok - don't quote me on this but from what I understand every tile will have a type of resource. I
need to check with game design again but I am sur
e that is the plan




Shane
02/10/2022 at 05:57:32 EST
I will have to ask about that but it's not on production




Shane
02/10/2022 at 05:56:40 EST
that will be changed if they are. I have requested it




Shane
02/10/2022 at 05:55:43 EST
ok let me make a note. I don't think they should be case sensitive .. doesn't make sense to me




Shane
02/10/2022 at 05:54:26 EST
oh thank you .. she wasn't very happy when I rushed the family back home though ..




Shane
02/10/2022 at 05:53:55 EST
I must say people are so vigilant though .. even watching details on the Updates page




Shane
02/10/2022 at 05:53:25 EST
please go to sleep. It was a human error.




Shane
02/10/2022 at 05:52:55 EST
hey guys. This is correct. It was a human error on E2's behalf. I was told about it when at dinner
for my daughter's birthday and had to cancel the d
inner and rush back to my PC because I heard there was excessive arguing on here and some
people being blamed for a leak. There were NO co
untries unlocked, we are going to make an announcement filling in EVERYONE with details before
any countries are unlocked. There was a misu
​nderstanding internally and we're trying to work out how those details were even listed in the
 update information. I prefer to release updates and m
 onitor stability before making an announcement and there was no plan to release any countries
 today. Please do not accuse others of leaking info
 rmation or accuse the South Koreans on insider knowledge, there is no insider details being
 shared with the South Korean Community and it is un
 fair to make that accusation. There will be announcement made which will inform everyone on
 locked countries being unlocked and the details aro
 und how that will happen. I am also happy to say that we've implemented a solution that will
 restrict the number of tiles a person can purchase per
 X period of time when a locked country is unlocked to diversify ownership of those countries more
 evenly. So it was a human error on our behalf.
 My team has already had to hear my frustration for missing my daughter's dinner because of this
 and me asking for details on how it even happen
 ed in the first place. So please accept our apologies and wait for the announcement to explain
 further details.




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:44:23 EST
night guys - keep safe and good luck on the hunt. Check out the rules
https://earth2.io/news/second-egg-hunt-live-and-update for details




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:43:31 EST
I kind of answered those questions above




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:43:08 EST
there is no reason we can't do things in steps and make it interesting / beneficial along the way. I
mean look at the things we've created so far and
the trade .. it's incredible .. once that translates into crypto / NFTs ..




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:41:47 EST
sorry guys it's almost 4am and I have an early morning meeting (yes E2 meetings Saturday
morning .. ) It's an important one so really want to catc
h some sleep before it




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:41:15 EST
to be honest I am not sure. Game design handle this part




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:40:53 EST
I am working on a model that would allow it to be part of the EcoSim and link in with everything
else. So yes, optional play 2 earn would be an idea
l outcome for me




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:40:13 EST
that's the idea




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:38:27 EST
I will have to check in on that. Let me make a note




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:37:54 EST
that would be very cool




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:37:40 EST
if you saw the messages I receive there you'd understand I rarely login .. it's crazy in there and it
distracts me too much




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:37:02 EST
sorry missed this. I cannot make that kind of prediction sorry .. who knows.. we have plans for all
in game resources so ...
​Shane
 01/28/2022 at 12:36:10 EST
 some of our team had meetings with RP1 (I did not meet them) - I think we're waiting on an update
 or something




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:35:14 EST
I agree - just that alone




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:34:50 EST
it will all come out - please have patience




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:34:10 EST
I didn't but if you give me your twitter ID I will make a record and add a note for it to be checked
out




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:32:37 EST
so would tokenising .. and therefore the introduction of crypto ..




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:31:43 EST
and why, if subdivision is not good, does that make T1 tiles useless?




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:31:07 EST
not yet




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:30:38 EST
well that is something we're working on. At least the initial version. The thing is the progress we're
making on building our own world means there
is a change coming to the way to deploy E2 via web .. so we're trying to hold off on changes until
we get that tech ready and understand it .. mean
ing we don't need to do things twice




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:29:12 EST
where did that come from? lol




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:28:55 EST
is it from "motis" ?




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:28:10 EST
sorry, I will ping my EA so I remember to search for it




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:27:38 EST
it's still on the table. We do have something else coming soon that might lead into subdivision but
with all the Jewel / Essence / Resources (comin
g) I am not sure you'd want to sub divide ..




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:26:28 EST
​amazing of course .. Korea is a very forward thinking country, very technological and massive
 gamers / internet users (netizens as they often refer
it as). As we release more functionality and purpose / utility inside E2 more brands and
governments will start looking at us




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:24:31 EST
oh sorry, I missed the T2 part. Advertising is for T1 tiles




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:23:52 EST
or wait and buy them like I will when they are user to user traded lol




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:23:15 EST
this is also in the works. I have plans to release a platform that allows advertisers and land owners
to connect. It will start small but will be organic
and grow - I think we can build a really good foundation for this




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:21:15 EST
this IS coming. I am pushing for it and it plays a part in expanding user to user trading of digital
assets inside E2




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:20:16 EST
it's easier said than done .. I wish I could click my fingers. We have no issues with funding of
course but finding the right talent is a process in itsel
f .. we're making progress though and you can see we're releasing more updates on the web side.
Things are coming together




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:18:59 EST
do you watch a game of sports if you know the result ?




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:18:41 EST
is that a special date?




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:18:16 EST
it's an update on resources to keep the community informed and to be transparent




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:17:51 EST
no hints sorry lol




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:17:38 EST
trust me .. I want that too but there are so many things we're working on - it all takes time
Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:17:16 EST
I think there are 20 eggs and 10 winners for each egg (including the main prize winner)




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:16:43 EST
find some eggs .. it's free
​Shane

01/28/2022 at 12:16:28 EST
these things take time and we have a lot on our plate right now. We're still trying to expand with
the right team members and we have higher priori
ties right now. We are working on getting parts into E2 but I can't give a date




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:15:31 EST
I think we're making our part to play in the big scheme of things. I am not so bold as to make such
claims ..




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:14:58 EST
we have an update on resources coming soon. Please wait for the details in that update




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:14:21 EST
as I said, the foundations of the metaverse will be built in small steps. It's useless trying to build it
all in one hit so we need to be smart about settin
g the right foundations for what the future will hold and need




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:13:30 EST
bigger things are coming .. we have massive opportunities with E2 and the overall direction things
are moving into the metaverse / Web 3 etc




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:12:49 EST
thanks very much - I appreciate you saying that.. what a tough year it was last year ..




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:12:09 EST
well that was the first egg. We have now announced it officially so the remaining could be posted
anywhere at any time (read the rules when you
have a chance please)




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:11:12 EST
you're set !




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:11:06 EST
yes it's coming together. We are working up some big updates to our MarketPlace, Bazaar and
especially our Bidding System .. this is to pave the
way for something bigger coming




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:10:01 EST
I think the momentum is showing some what which is cool




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:09:44 EST
mainly in posts, announcements, etc. Similar to last year. Hopefully the next one will be in an early
/ initial (lo-poly) version of our 3D world




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:07:54 EST
we're still working toward that. It will be close but obviously we need to publish it when it has
approval from a number of internal team members




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:06:04 EST
​everyone needs a lot of things but we can't post about everything each week. We have been
 making regular announcements and we're trying to k
 eep that consistent




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:05:24 EST
when we have deployment for NFTs ready so it will all work together. Makes sense to have them
all on the same chain




Shane
01/28/2022 at 12:04:15 EST
Hey Guys. The hunt is just for a little fun to add an additional layer of interest to updates and
things we post. It's there for people who want to parti
cipate. We announced it to ensure people are aware it's started, participation is optional. Had we
not announced it officially players would complai
n we didn't make it known.




Shane
01/20/2022 at 11:40:27 EST
Hi everyone. Sorry for not dropping in to chat today, there is a lot going on and I need to get some
sleep now. I will try to drop in for a catch up cha
t over the next week. Keep safe




Shane
12/24/2021 at 14:49:29 EST
thanks for the lovely messages and I really hope you all enjoy a nice Christmas and end of year. I
will have someone from our office screenshot th
em all so we can read through them later as a team. I still need to wrap gifts for my kids so have to
jump onto that now before they wake up! Take
care everyone and will chat again soon!




Shane
12/24/2021 at 14:42:16 EST
Hi Everyone, I hope you’re all well. Is 5:30am Christmas morning here in Australia so I think I am
allowed to wish you all a Merry Christmas and a s
afe and happy day spent with family and loved ones. Whether you celebrate Christmas or not, it is
the end of the year and certainly a time to focus
on the ones close to you, something I hope to be doing some more of today and over the coming
days as well. To say the past year has been any
thing less of a roller coaster ride would be one of the understatements of 2021 and although much
of the progress over the past year is not all visi
ble, I can say we are in a much stronger position now to push the platform forward having solved
numerous key issues we inherited from the sudd
en growth and forming strong partnerships and foundations, some known, which will assist with us
turning the Earth 2 vision into a reality. I am gla
d to have all of you hear and to be sharing this journey together, the good with the bad, and I look
forward to continuing that journey through 2022,
it being a year we can start to see some fruit from the hard yards put in during 2021. Please keep
safe over the holiday break and thank you again
for your support and being part of the Earth 2 journey so far!




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:25:49 EST
thanks for being here to talk to




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:25:37 EST
hope you all have a good day ahead and look forward to chatting more next time!




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:25:14 EST
coming up to 3:30am now and I really need to get some things done. Was hoping not to see the
sunrise before I sleep today lol




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:24:27 EST
I don't even have to answer these things




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:23:49 EST
did we ever broadcast T2 ?
​Shane
 12/18/2021 at 12:22:20 EST
 wait for the whitepaper please. Will make more sense.




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:21:35 EST
people don't realise the metaverse will be built on people and ownership spanning millions of
users, not a few thousand .. so yeah, E2 is definitely
heading in the right direction




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:20:19 EST
wait for the white paper please




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:20:03 EST
I have not received it from him yet but I am sure he will pass it to me and it will likely end up on my
desk through next week I imagine
Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:19:19 EST
we partnered with Polygon ..




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:17:38 EST
I doubt it at this stage .. I have already been down this route with at least one VC firm that gave
me a runway to go public .. not what I am intereste
d in unfortunately. I would prefer to ensure E2 is built in a way that gives control back to the
players, not public shareholders of a company




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:16:08 EST
once we have the foundations for our first PvP game we can release API where others can bring
in a multitude of different games .. even games n
ot necessarily built using our tech




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:15:17 EST
haha .. I have no words




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:14:50 EST
thank you - and to you too! I am sure I will be back in before Christmas though!




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:14:23 EST
what I can say is that I am just as excited as you are and I will be pushing this harder that you
would be lol


Shane I can't give an exact date but we do plan to release dev blogs from time to time on little bits
of tech we're working on




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:13:40 EST
we have to be careful about showing final production stuff as people take it out of context and turn
it back around on us




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:13:12 EST
I can't give an exact date but we do plan to release dev blogs from time to time on little bits of tech
we're working on
​Shane
 12/18/2021 at 12:12:06 EST
 wait for whitepaper - sorry




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:11:49 EST
this month
Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:11:36 EST
I don't think I ever received an email from you guys (otherwise I missed it)




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:11:18 EST
wait for the game whitepaper please Sorry




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:10:37 EST
they will be a beacon for people to access areas directly. So if you have land in a popular place it
may have more chance for organic visiting
traffic, but a good EPL can draw crowds from anywhere in the world to one location .. so yeah




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:09:37 EST
probably even more than this




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:09:25 EST
of course we're looking at all of these type of things. I am not sure I would say "DRONE" but an
updated version of DRONE for E2




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:08:52 EST
no I'm not familiar with it. I got hooked on X2 - The Threat - not sure if that is from the same series
(a long time ago)




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:07:11 EST
I cannot advise you on that, sorry




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:06:48 EST
maybe you're not supposed to be buying too many single tiles then lol




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:06:01 EST
I have been a big fan of the DRONE work for some time now and as an avid gamer, I don't think
game play is there just yet but it is DEFINITELY o
n the cusp of something very big. What a dream come true to be able to influence game design
and game play in a game like DRONE - I have so
me big plans for the PvP - should be interesting!




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:04:44 EST
that is too broad a question for me to answer .. probably some legalities around that but we want
to support as many different types of 'environme
nts' that we can
Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:03:50 EST
​I am very aware




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:03:36 EST
I can't see why not




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:03:18 EST
would make sense




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:02:53 EST
I need to wait for a report. I wish I had time to stop and study it all myself. My apologies




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:02:00 EST
I have personally forwarded the message to our team in Sydney and asked them to look at it. I am
not sure what you mean about respect ..




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:01:12 EST
they are printing early Jan. More details will come but most likely will be verified users, first in




Shane
12/18/2021 at 12:00:08 EST
we will be setting up a section for megacities to become officially verified. Don't worry, we know!




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:58:39 EST
he had a massive opportunity .. I told him to let his work speak volume to people and he had the
perfect opportunity to do that. I was hoping for the
same thing as you but I cannot control the personal decisions people make in their life




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:57:07 EST
oh yeah - I remember that ! LOL What happened to that guy ..




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:56:45 EST
ok - I have already copied and sent to our team to review. They will hopefully get back over the
next week or so and someone might reach out. I f
orgot to respond, sorry


Shane I want people working together moving forward .. if you have a lot of properties you may
need to collaborate with other players who master the eco sim or spend a bit of time on it yourself




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:55:58 EST
we want millions of people on the platform working together so while we're always looking to build
tools to make things easier, we also want player
s to collaborate and work together so those that have a lot may need to work together with others
to get the most out of what they own




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:54:56 EST
I want people working together moving forward .. if you have a lot of properties you may need to
collaborate with other players who master the eco
sim or spend a bit of time on it yourself ..




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:53:22 EST
​thanks guys. Is almost 3 am here and I need to wrap a few things up. One other thing I just wanted
 to mention is that I am all for giving someone a
 chance, maybe even two chances and given the history of the situation I tried my best to protect
 someone I saw being attacked and bullied by a g
 roup online, but a number of new issues have come to light the past few days, issues we were not
 aware of, and I just wanted to let the communit
 y know that Tanner is no longer part of E2. He was on a test period working for us on 3D models
 alone and did not have access to any key reposit
 ories, but unfortunately it has not worked out. I hope he manages to pull things together for his
 own benefit moving forward in his life.




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:50:00 EST
thank you and you're most welcome




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:49:40 EST
we have some really interesting concepts around how parts of DRONE will be introduced to E2,
especially for the first PvP play. But remember, E
2 will also be it's own stand alone platform so while parts of DRONE will be evident, the over all
feel won't be entirely DRONE




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:48:06 EST
probably not good timing when we have YouTubers who have little knowledge about creating
games yet are hell bent on attacking us / intentionall
y taking things out of context .. when I saw the comment in here I decided to respond .. that's all




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:46:49 EST
you then carried on with the point .. so I decided to respond




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:46:25 EST
but that's not what you wrote above. You wrote we could have just got it all for free months ago via
Unity plugins - see a difference?




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:45:42 EST
you can bet on that
Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:45:24 EST
I have asked for this to be looked into. Our devs can only do so much at once and we always have
other priorities coming up




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:44:37 EST
haha .. I can confirm I will definitely be visiting it




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:44:13 EST
yeah I understand




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:44:02 EST
and this is what a normal, good person would do. Wish our world had more normal good people ..




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:43:02 EST
we are pushing for it .. or early next month. Is one of the numerous updates we're working on




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:42:40 EST
​yes, I would expect that to change but I need to validate that with our team moving forward first




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:42:11 EST
I went in there to show my respect to their community .. not sure they appreciated that gesture but
I can understand they are frustrated. Hopefully
long term they will see the result is much better than the game just winding up




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:41:27 EST
yeah - one more this month




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:40:45 EST
exactly. Why would we limit it to just one thing? We are building a metaverse .. a platform ..




Shane
12/18/2021 at 11:38:55 EST
Of course DRONE was built on the Unity game engine but the vast majority of it's systems were
custom made. Good luck replicating things you fin
d on DRONE simply out of the box with base unity plugins. Any game developer with even
intermediate knowledge about Unity (or any game engi
ne at that) would know that it's not possible to create something like DRONE without creating tons
of custom technology as well. So I tell you what
- you give us a list of the exact existing unity asset store plugins you claim we could have freely
obtained and used out of the box to make DRON
E and I will get a list back to you on 99% of the missing parts which constitute the game actually
working .. why would Unity spend over $10K to fl
y the DRONE team to SF Unite / GDC in 2018 to officially showcase their achievements with
DRONE? Because they unzipped a few free plugins
? Give me a break .. shows how dangerous know-it-alls can be ..




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:18:47 EST
thanks everyone. Hope you all have a good day ahead and keep safe.




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:18:13 EST
I want people to collaborate - you will not need to play the game but you might collaborate with
players who do to mutually benefit some how




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:17:35 EST
wanted to come in and chat with you guys first




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:17:24 EST
haha ok .. I need to sync with the team now and quite a few other partners on the announcement
etc




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:16:45 EST
we have plans for E2 avatars but I am not sure whether they will be ready by the time E2 DRONE
PvP goes live




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:16:10 EST
I don't have an answer for that right now, but might be a bit excessive




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:14:56 EST
the latest one




Shane
​ 12/16/2021 at 10:14:22 EST
 I think we are close to it, I have not received an update on that




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:13:55 EST
you would already own one! But seriously, cannot say right now - it might be more technical than
that




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:13:15 EST
we are going full 3D action shooter for the PvP - but there may be more to it .. please stay tuned
Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:12:38 EST
if there will be I wouldn't answer it here




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:12:01 EST
clairvoyant right here




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:11:49 EST
because we are not disclosing that right now, sorry




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:11:19 EST
yes ..




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:10:24 EST
please wait for the paper




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:10:10 EST
glad to hear !




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:08:14 EST
this is a very subjective argument.




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:07:03 EST
apparently ..




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:06:50 EST
ahh .. still 15 mins behind .. I am going to have to skip some questions guy




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:06:18 EST
we will be publishing an announcement on that I believe. Just ensuring it's all working correctly
first




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:05:15 EST
that is what we are aiming toward. I want people to have access to 3D environments as soon as
possible even if it means before the world scale o
​pen world is fully functional




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:04:19 EST
we have one more pretty big announcement to make this year .. then it's focus on next year




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:03:31 EST
true - let me ask about that




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:03:21 EST
no - I am not enticing anyone from the DRONE community to join E2.




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:02:55 EST
they will be coming as some of our first NFTs (to those who won them fair and square)




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:01:53 EST
it might just be how it appears on the transfer. Funny people choose to focus on something like
that instead of the fact the player was paid out. "Yo
u haven't paid out anyone!" "You paid out people and now we're going to pick on the text the bank
provided!"




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:00:40 EST
I think some people create video content for that type of thing




Shane
12/16/2021 at 10:00:04 EST
I don't think we progress forward putting other platforms down. Both are really cool - we just focus
on E2 and move forward




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:59:08 EST
we are thinking it will be only Essence or other in game currencies. We want people to play the
game and work for those upgrades unless they bu
y Essence on the open market




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:58:05 EST
ahh .. I am now 15 mins behind in chat .. going to try to catch up




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:57:35 EST
you know - this may not be too far from the truth. I want people collaborating for mutual benefit




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:57:05 EST
I have asked the same question and I think the answer is yes. It will come
Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:56:54 EST
I wrote a long answer for this but decided not to respond. It will only feed them with more
information. I think most people can see what is going on




Shane
​ 12/16/2021 at 09:46:16 EST
 if your complaint is about locked countries then maybe hang in there a bit longer. We always come
 through with something.. either way I will perso
 nally follow up if you sent me the support ticket to receive a report on what the issue is




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:45:11 EST
haha soon .. or shoon ..




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:44:43 EST
yeah I am aware of a more widespread issue in India but as you say, this is not E2 related




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:44:14 EST
we do have a video to release but it's been worked on by the extended P3 team. We don't have an
exact release date right now




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:43:19 EST
nothing I can say right now. But as you can see we've been working hard in the background and
we do disclose information when it's ready to go p
ublic - we've shown that now




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:42:15 EST
please don't DM me personal information. Just send me the ticket number and I will forward to
relevant employees for an explanation




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:41:26 EST
so do I !!




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:41:07 EST
you may want to check with your bank. We are not aware of wide spread issues here




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:40:41 EST
I find it hard to believe support has not been assisting you. Legally I cannot really help you outside
of support due to privacy laws. I receive reports
from support weekly and I am not aware of any backlogs and I know for a fact we instantly refund
any purchases that failed (we have an automate
d system that does this).
Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:38:56 EST
yes




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:38:43 EST
not sure what planet they are on




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:37:44 EST
Singtel




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:37:42 EST
is not Signtel
​Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:37:27 EST
of course I do. That creates less headaches for me .. right? haha .. but seriously, I want much
more control back to the players and we have some
really interesting ways of doing this




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:36:23 EST
please message support




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:36:11 EST
it is on the table but not sure whether details will be ready for release around that by Jan / Feb




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:35:08 EST
we are working on a partnership out of Singapore to fast track this - hoping Q1 2022




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:34:30 EST
there is one central token for now but the EcoSim is a pretty expansive game so there will likely be
other factors, I cannot say which just yet




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:33:36 EST
yes, all users will be able to take custody




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:32:27 EST
yes, it will largely be around our Blockchain and token deployments but that involves PvP etc




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:31:50 EST
I want E2 to be a place where creativity is rewarded ..
Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:30:26 EST
definitely




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:30:19 EST
I mentioned that Jewels will always have that benefit




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:29:41 EST
there are already some benefits but more will be realised in the EcoSim and beyond




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:29:10 EST
do you mean for land classes ?




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:28:41 EST
the Jewels will always give benefit over no Jewels
​Shane
 12/16/2021 at 09:28:06 EST
 we are in the rare position of not even needing to ICO / Presale. Land owners are playing the
 game right now to get Essence .. think about it




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:25:32 EST
directly from game design : Physical Storage Space for resources and building blocks is tied to
that property, but all storage buildings on that prop
erty feed into one property storage. If properties fed into one storage total, the location of
resources would be meaningless




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:24:22 EST
you will need to see the whitepaper. What I can say is we have the right people working on this




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:23:59 EST
can't confirm exchanges but we are looking big and a number of exchanges have already been
offering us incentives just to list with them .. so I th
ink we will have a few good choices




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:23:10 EST
100% !




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:22:59 EST
thank you
Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:22:42 EST
that should be enshrined in the law




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:21:44 EST
I don't believe so but looking at how Polygon are going to handle that will give you a clearer
indication




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:20:48 EST
let me ask game design and come back to you. I am not sure on the answer personally




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:19:47 EST
I can't make any comment on this assumption I am sorry




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:19:14 EST
it will be. That is for E2




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:18:56 EST
we want to build on this concept. It is community created and we see it as a massive part of E2
moving forward. I have had extensive discussions
with our game design team on how we integrate this concept into E2 mainstream. First step will be
allowing megacities to validate and be listed off
icially on the E2 website




Shane
​ 12/16/2021 at 09:17:40 EST
 if we do something separate for the DRONE community it will not be linked to E2. E2's version will
 be separate. Not sure if they realise what that
 might mean but at least they have their own standalone game




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:16:25 EST
yes, there was a lot of information in one hit. We realise that. Better to break it up where possible
but we had a lot to convey end of year to share a
s much information as possible with you all




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:15:23 EST
cool!




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:15:12 EST
actually .. you might need a spaceship .. or we might just give youone
Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:14:48 EST
we are aiming for Jan / Feb




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:14:03 EST
Devs are looking into this




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:13:35 EST
nice voice, right ?




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:13:24 EST
from what I understand that is correct. The devs are looking into the situation.




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:13:01 EST
I wish - I thought I might get a break this year but not looking like it ..




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:11:07 EST
will be back in a moment guys - just need to use the rest room I have not left the building




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:10:19 EST
Yes, I have heard about this issue and our devs have been working on a solution for Tier 1
properties that have 0 EDC so they will continue to rec
eive Essence. We did mention previously that Essence dist was boosted in the maiden year to
reward those quietly playing the game and that pro
duction would drop on the EDC roll out and moving forward. We are testing a variety of updates
linked to the whitepaper as this is a massive com
mitment from Earth 2 and we want to ensure the systems work correctly now and 10 years into the
future so please bare with us during this phase




Shane
12/16/2021 at 09:06:34 EST
We will be releasing the whitepaper early next year and it will include extensive details about how
Essence will work and function on various types
of land. We hope we have a general road map to release around the same time. We have been
working on this internally and it looks solid




Shane
​ 12/16/2021 at 09:04:55 EST
 yes, we are super excited as well




Shane
12/16/2021 at 08:23:11 EST
hey guys - I will be in here shortly. We knew the DRONE community may not be welcoming of E2
due to some of the incorrect covered of E2 publi
cly so I just need to spend a little time in there out of respect for their community. Look forward to
chatting in here shortly
Shane
12/06/2021 at 15:27:52 EST
big things coming guys. Thank you for the kind words! Back to work and hope you all have a good
day ahead!




Shane
12/04/2021 at 19:00:39 EST
have reported this already and they are looking into it but seems other people are not having an
issue




Shane
12/04/2021 at 18:59:47 EST
servers seem to be ok guys and most issues resolved. We will keep monitoring but most issues
seem fixed. I have to let my team have a bit of a b
reak as well but we will keep monitoring. Thanks for your patience




Shane
12/04/2021 at 18:58:51 EST
8 figures for single digit % - didn't do the deal




Shane
12/04/2021 at 17:18:26 EST
sorry guys, have to get back to this I want to ensure it's pushed out so I can spend some time with
my daughter. Have a good day ahead!




Shane
12/04/2021 at 17:17:40 EST
we have listed those but you will also be able to upgrade T2 to T1 with future game play .. so ..




Shane
12/04/2021 at 17:15:51 EST
didn't people say that about T1 a year ago ?




Shane
12/04/2021 at 17:15:11 EST
very soon .. I literally slept 3 hours in the past couple days and I have promised a day at a baby
doll convention with my youngest daughter today,
it's just past 8am here. First 1 on 1 date I have had with her for over a year so I can't miss that




Shane
12/04/2021 at 17:13:52 EST
THAT IS AWESOME !




Shane
12/04/2021 at 17:13:32 EST
Anonymous is the default username shown for players that selected to become anonymous on the
activity page. THey are not all the same user




Shane
12/04/2021 at 17:12:45 EST
anything missed we will correct retrospectively. We're just adding final deployments to stabilise the
systems and we will look at anything compens
ating anything missed by players later next week. It will just be built into standard collections /
conversions
​Shane
 12/04/2021 at 12:17:31 EST
 We are testing a fix we've been working on since yesterday and results seem good so far




Shane
12/03/2021 at 22:37:49 EST
1:37pm - but have been awake long since yesterday




Shane
12/03/2021 at 22:37:03 EST
I certainly feel like one right now




Shane
12/03/2021 at 22:36:42 EST
Please check the <#775034906656636948> channel for an update.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:36:04 EST
would be great




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:35:51 EST
have a great weekend guys. Look forward to the announcement early next week




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:35:34 EST
let me ping you back




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:35:26 EST
I will keep monitoring the website progress. THe team is working on it




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:34:47 EST
ok




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:34:19 EST
my apologies, I am never going to catch up with the chat lol




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:34:06 EST
I will ask someone from my team to screenshot the rest and I will check it next week
Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:33:46 EST
hey guys - sorry I was literally 30 mins behind




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:33:00 EST
100% !!
​Shane
 12/03/2021 at 16:32:13 EST
 those same people focus on the basic points and not the actual part of the tech we were
 demonstrating. You can look at a airplane and miss the f
 act that it flies, carries passengers etc .. but say "oh - it's only got a nut bolt holding that wheel in
 place!" Stupid is, stupid does .. these guys just w
 ant to focus on something misleading to serve their own agenda




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:29:48 EST
your what ?




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:29:26 EST
agree. We actually started translating in Japanese, Korean and Chinese late last year but then we
grew too fast and lost focus




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:28:14 EST
please give me some




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:28:00 EST
yes! You will be able to




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:27:36 EST
I can disclose I didn't eat dinner .. so hungry right now.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:26:44 EST
I have asked whether there is an issue here but I am not aware of any




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:26:05 EST
I am not sure exactly but we need to release further details on HBs, I agree




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:25:30 EST
I am not sure but what I am sure of that people who believe in our vision will follow along with E2.
When we cover more languages that will also o
pen up our vision to non-English speaking countries.. will be great when we get there
Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:24:02 EST
are you serious? Someone was in charge of that .. can you please message Liz or Kieran with
details and I will find out what happened. I am shoc
ked to hear this




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:22:48 EST
too early for me to answer - you will need to see our plans




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:22:34 EST
answered above already




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:22:25 EST
​the ever insightful @butt ! We don't want to overwhelm people !




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:21:37 EST
yeah.. what a crazy world




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:21:22 EST
we are not offering withdrawals right now




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:20:45 EST
firstly .. congrats! Secondly. . I have no idea!




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:20:26 EST
yes, I want it to be open. I think I already answered the other question above




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:19:02 EST
it should have been delivered .. that is my point.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:18:40 EST
this is what happens when you try to answer everything ..




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:18:27 EST
yea ..
Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:18:13 EST
we are looking into it




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:18:00 EST
I cannot give further details right now, sorry. Game design need to release that info




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:17:38 EST
cannot believe this was missed. I have made a note




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:15:55 EST
thank you for being here!




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:15:40 EST
I can't keep up with the Qs .. I am still all the way up here. 20 mins behind the chat room




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:15:12 EST
did I ?
​Shane
 12/03/2021 at 16:14:44 EST
 can you send me your account URL (which is public, I am not asking for private info) and I will ask
 dev team to check directly because I see a few
 people are claiming something similar. I am guessing it's just lagging behind




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:13:53 EST
I think I answered that already




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:12:50 EST
Anonymous means they have changed privacy on their profile so their username does not show in
the feed. Each time you see anonymous it can
be different players




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:11:52 EST
I will try to be in here more often, I just have so much on my plate I literally don't get much free
time. I do enjoy coming in here so maybe I can cou
nt it as a recreational activity




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:10:53 EST
yeah .. up all night to keep across those zones. My sweet spot sleep is usually 9-10am to 3-4pm
my time. But these days I'm around 5pm sleep 1
1pm wake up
Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:09:25 EST
haha




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:08:32 EST
ok - will take a note and team will check it out




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:07:53 EST
NEVER !




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:07:36 EST
we didn't announce that




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:06:40 EST
after the partnership announcement we have a new hire announcement which will be followed by
an acquisition announcement and THEN we can
FINALLY start showing you guys some COOL VIDS on what our team has been working on !




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:05:55 EST
much too early to tell you that




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:05:29 EST
you know your stuff!
​Shane
 12/03/2021 at 16:05:08 EST
 we gave a bonus retrospective reward which now appears as promise now to all T1 founder
 property owners. It is a minimum, not a limit




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:04:13 EST
is that your expertise ?




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:02:20 EST
haha my sleep is a bit better these days. End of Nov got a bit crazy again and honestly, some
curve balls thrown at me which I didn't see coming t
hat just made it worse .. but all good. Sleeping better. Hopefully December is not what it was like
last year though




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:01:13 EST
instant teleportation / link to that property from anywhere in the world
Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:00:48 EST
we're not disclosing that. But I can say it's more than what many think right now




Shane
12/03/2021 at 16:00:26 EST
still can't get it out of my head




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:59:40 EST
yes, if the landowners agreed and you paid them what they wanted (or if you owned the land)




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:59:20 EST
I thought I answered this but my answer was : sorry, I cannot answer that right now. Sorry, I know
that might not help .. but I can tell you it's in extr
emely good hands




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:58:34 EST
omnipresence .. yes, that is one of the core reasons I came up with the E2 concept




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:57:50 EST
you will need to play the game OR purchase something like Essence for that. Time and effort or
using something like Essence will be the core wa
ys to get that upgraded




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:56:33 EST
I answered it above .. maybe I answered a different person




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:56:15 EST
not confirming an exchange here! LOL Boy .. I can just imagine the headings




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:55:18 EST
yeah .. there is a good 8 months in there I would really love to jump in an explain to you about .. it
is back in my control now and it will be done corr
​ectly




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:54:14 EST
np




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:54:04 EST
there was an initial shut down on communication based on the advice from some sources. All
good now
Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:52:59 EST
it should be improving slowly - we're working on various fixes




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:52:20 EST
oh - need to rush now!




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:51:46 EST
if you can sit tight a little longer or read the previous couple announcements you might be able to
piece it together




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:51:11 EST
not intentional. I legit answers that question with innocence




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:50:32 EST
yeah, we know .. trust me




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:49:59 EST
all the details will be shared progressively.. and it works




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:49:38 EST
sorry, I cannot answer that right now




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:49:23 EST
ok let's not get carried away here




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:48:59 EST
yeah .. imagine ..




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:48:27 EST
we have agreements for BTC only right now but will look into it




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:48:06 EST
yes, your own ads. You own the land. And you get to choose whose ads you want to show and at
what price you'd accept
​Shane
 12/03/2021 at 15:47:30 EST
ok (to the dm part)




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:47:10 EST
ok - I am going to ask about that. I receive weekly reports from customer support and was not
aware there is a backlog on refunds




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:46:12 EST
we have QA teams and obviously developers checking commits and code, but sometimes things
are missed then when it hits production with big
data we find the issue. I agree the process needs to be more foolproof and trust me, I have already
told senior staff I want a full review early next
week




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:44:54 EST
that is a long story and one that frustrates me when I see the question because it should have
been ready a long time ago. We signed a partnersh
ip agreement with an incredibly talented Canadian software firm who are helping us finish that off.
Sorry I don't have a better answer for you but I
am pushing to have it ready early 2022



Shane we could switch BTC on - should we?




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:41:55 EST
wow .. that was a bigger reaction than expected. Maybe I have to look at switching that on .. we
have the contracts in place already




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:41:24 EST
it should appear after some time. If it does not please contact support and they can process a
refund for you




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:40:26 EST
we could switch BTC on - should we?




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:40:00 EST
if that has occurred please contact support. It will be resolved




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:39:36 EST
yes, for content creators. I cannot wait until this marketplace goes live. I have been pushing design
through and it's getting spec'd




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:38:53 EST
is not servers this time. Is an issue in the code. We are fixing it right now. Sorry for the
inconvenience




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:37:42 EST
ok .. I had to google that... and I'm not closer to an answer for you




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:37:08 EST
love it!
​Shane
 12/03/2021 at 15:36:39 EST
 sorry - I am probably answering all the questions you and toba have lol




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:35:52 EST
where there is a job to be done, I'm there




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:35:32 EST
user to user trades requires KYC - so if anything fishy is going on, detected or reported we should
be able to identify. That is one reason we built i
n KYC




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:34:10 EST
wait until you see the partnership and you'll see we're in good hands .. and we were spoiled for
choice. We picked the best option for E2 long term




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:33:06 EST
I am hoping by 6 months we will have our first platform to connect advertisers with land owners.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:32:32 EST
I can write on it with a nikko for you? lol




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:32:00 EST
there will be a page update on the website which will allow people to purchase. I think one per
user will definitely need to be enforced by the soun
d of it




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:31:11 EST
Lemon, lime and bitters? Gee .. I hope that doesn't make me some other kind of weirdo now ..
don't drink alcohol often, pineapple pizza .. surely n
othing wrong with LL&B ?




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:29:13 EST
they are limited edition - first lot will be limited to 10,000




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:28:43 EST
not sure I would go that far. But Jewels will be a very active part of the platform and will have utility
in many different areas




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:27:24 EST
yes, I will be trying to drop in more often now we are getting close to revealing partnerships which
will in turn show the next direction E2 will take.
As we start to nail down more specifics I will be more than happy to jump in more often. The
problem is it's hard to jump in without any specifics or
details to share as everything is some what confidential / in planning




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:25:28 EST
production should be Jan / Feb
​Shane
 12/03/2021 at 15:24:43 EST
 I think these will continue and are a great in game commodity! We are on Tier 2 at the moment,
 Tier 3 (coming soon) will have scores more possib
 ilities which will then move to Tier 4 getting into thousands and beyond. Going to be some
 incredibly rare jewels in the future. . the interesting part
 will be whether the discoverer wants to share the recipe or not ..




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:22:54 EST
ahhhh .. yes almost got me there




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:22:03 EST
nice!




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:20:57 EST
you got that? HAHA .. I almost have to buy it




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:20:14 EST
not out yet, just announced. It will be 2022 thing before it can be actively played but when it's
ready will be a proper PvP game build into the E2 ec
o system




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:18:41 EST
100%! I would love to !




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:18:25 EST
if you can come up with a list of questions I am more than happy to look at it. I mean you are E2
News ..
Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:15:32 EST
haha. .if you think I would have had a holiday but then.. though I wish your assumption was
correct. Just send me the list of questions and we can
look at it




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:14:29 EST
I mean how many people try to raid E2's community .. I just take it as a compliment now lol




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:13:24 EST
couldn't have said it better myself. Can I at least have a little holiday first? I am still getting over
my last interview, I don't even remember talking in
it .. it was that surreal.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:12:16 EST
Hi there. I think we are building a platform and I love the thought of collaboration. I think a big part
of what we have planned will open up the door f
or collaboration with other projects or creativity within our own




Shane
12/03/2021 at 15:09:32 EST
wow .. very perceptive @thehazyone .. it really is incredible what goes on behind closed doors, I
kid you not.
​Shane
 12/03/2021 at 15:05:10 EST
 yes, you guys are certainly part of that team and hence the purpose behind this recent reward.
 Those who are heads down and want to be involve
 d long term in the project. We have some incredible team members inside E2 who are die hard E2
 fans and dedicated to building E2, then we hav
 e what I would say is THE most resilient, passionate and incredible community any project could
 ever dream of having! Sure we are developing te
 ch, we have plans to expand the platform but people underestimate the power of a community
 who has come together with a single dream and a
 common purpose - this being achieved from so many various demographics .. that is where E2 is
 born from and it will be forever amazing to look b
 ack at that beginning and know, this is how it all started.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:59:58 EST
there scores of people who work tirelessly on E2 in the background .. they just don't chase the
limelight but they are amazing, intelligent people. O
ne thing I have learned is building a good team not only requires talented individuals, it requires
good people with good ethics who genuinely want
to build something that is successful. They don't want mainstage, they don't want fame - they get
down, focus and make things happen.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:57:24 EST
might be too obvious if I answer that




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:56:57 EST
for me would be enough




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:54:41 EST
thank you




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:54:30 EST
haha I wish .. I have not even had a chance to book anywhere. Will be in trouble again with fam .. I
really don't think it's going to happen




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:53:21 EST
thanks @._miss.tee_.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:52:10 EST
we're officially partnering at the highest level with an incredible, well known global chain. You guys
will find out over the next few days.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:50:56 EST
for Tier 1 land




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:50:51 EST
minimum promise




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:50:40 EST
no




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:50:09 EST
yes but see how slowly it's moving? If things were fully online it would be moving 100 times faster
​Shane
 12/03/2021 at 14:48:25 EST
 or not successfully




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:48:19 EST
not many are buying




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:48:11 EST
I answered that above - we need to see the active load to fix it
Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:47:47 EST
there will just be a delay




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:47:28 EST
entire team?




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:46:33 EST
because E2 is running monolithic docker containers. Some people were lucky enough to get a
stable connection in containers that are not respaw
ning. We're actively trying to resolve this right now. Just to be transparent, it seems there is an
issue with db write speed which is frustrating the co
ntainers and making them think they need to respawn. We're working on it




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:43:22 EST
I think we can cover that at a later time and place




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:39:10 EST
don't say that ..




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:38:45 EST
it will appear later - we have some issues with delays on the server right now




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:38:23 EST
I will be asking for a review next week into potential bots - if there was mass buying from bots we'll
look to fix that.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 14:33:23 EST
exactly. Just an update guys. We are aware of connection issue to the servers. Unfortunately we
need it to stay online to monitor server load and i
dentify the bottleneck. Once we have enough data we will either lock servers down again or push
the fix.




Shane
12/03/2021 at 11:55:22 EST
nono .. we've had a team of devs working full time for us for months on the P3 tech. We just didn't
want to push them into the spotlight and they ar
e just not on the team page. It will all be updated over the next week or so




Shane
12/02/2021 at 13:56:10 EST
​guys - it's just a casual interview - definitely not a big speech by any means. I had to fit it in last
 minute and was dead tired. I'm just focusing on en
 suring this retrospective reward goes live soon and focusing on releasing some big news on our
 new partnership and team hires. I didn't realise thi
s interview was going to be such a big thing.. it was supposed to be an informal / casual interview
lol




Shane
11/30/2021 at 17:37:48 EST
Yes, it will be. You would not believe the people we are working with on the metrics.. from hugely
successful projects. With the plans we have ahe
ad they all agreed Essence is the perfect fit and believe me, it is incredible how all of this will work
- can't wait to share more.. I don't normally hyp
e things up but we're in the right hands and it's looking incredible.




Shane
11/22/2021 at 22:23:11 EST
so sit back and let conspiracists run things out of control? Just throwing some truth out there for
those supporting the project.




Shane
11/22/2021 at 22:21:11 EST
more of that coming!




Shane
11/22/2021 at 22:19:48 EST
Where did you come up with this one? I most certainly have never said that, I wanted people who
own land to be able to play the EcoSim (includi
ng generating resources etc) and then be able to trade those resources for various reasons.
Anyway, I just dropped in and saw that comment so d
ecided to reply. There are some crazy speculative thoughts being thrown around right now many
that could not be further from the truth. The deci
sions I make are in the best interest of E2. The end of Nov is looming and we have a lot to do over
coming days and into Dec, so I am going to get
back to it now.




Shane
11/10/2021 at 19:24:43 EST
but am I sleeping ?




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:35:19 EST
ok I do have to sleep now. Nice chatting everyone and keep safe.




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:33:09 EST
longer runway unfortunately .. sorry




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:32:47 EST
oh yeah .. I took a photo the other day but thought it's not a good time to post it. I will get shot for
not announcing something more interesting then
I will have people asking if that is the big announcement




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:31:59 EST
I think that's the email. ..
Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:31:55 EST
why don't you email your CV to jobs@earth2.io ?




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:31:13 EST
now I am confused ..
​Shane
 11/10/2021 at 17:30:30 EST
 yeah I didn't realise what that hard work actually meant ..




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:29:54 EST
no




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:29:48 EST
yes, things are happening there




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:29:36 EST
yeah, I guess I am




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:29:13 EST
no - I just heard there were 300 or so participants. I have asked my team to review it still and
appreciate your time trying to put something like that

together




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:28:25 EST
no! I expected it maybe one day, but not this fast.. it has turned my life upside down .. I was
already busy enough as it were before E2




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:27:21 EST
It depends how players want to integrate them. We will be showing examples with projects we're
building, the community / external developers ca
n follow suit or come up with their own ideas. I cannot wait for the creativity




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:25:49 EST
why do people want to spoil the party?




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:25:18 EST
nothing I can share now, but I can say the PvP we have planned will help us reactively build that
API / SDK to allow other games to follow suit. I do
want to run a competition at some stage with prize money for the best ideas in the community to
build into Earth 2 once we have that foundation r
eady




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:22:23 EST
every day of the week




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:20:17 EST
Axie sky rocketed when the scholarship program came out. When I heard about I asked my team
to review and I told them I bet that is when it sky
rocketed .. interesting indeed. Great example of play to earn one must say though




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:18:45 EST
100% I loved it!! Plan to repost on Twitter later this month. Thank you so much for that video ..
brought a tear
​Shane
 11/10/2021 at 17:18:12 EST
 We have people talking the truth who were not even there. It's like me using Microsoft as an
 example vs Android when Android was in v1.. or iPho
 ne vs the first Samsung .. or Samsung vs the first Google Pixel etc.. Ignore the process the
 predecessor had to go through, look at the end result
 after years of of work to release then compare it to a hyper growth that is finally starting to catch
 up in it's first year. Decentraland were not actively
 pushing updates, supporting a live product etc. Thanks for sharing that important point




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:13:54 EST
nah .. I would main Malz




Shane

11/10/2021 at 17:13:22 EST
I have made it clear there are multiple announcements coming this month. Let's look forward to
those and see what information they contain.




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:12:08 EST
I think my daughter plays that. Unfortunately I don't have time




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:11:47 EST
yes, we need to wait for some other things to happen before it's released




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:11:17 EST
agree




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:10:34 EST
your initial point was that Decentraland launched with a game .. which was incorrect, it took them 3
years. Big difference
Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:09:29 EST
yes, please sleep




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:09:13 EST
we are actually working on a general road map. To give something to those patiently waiting
something to look forward to, but the flip side is other
s will use it to criticise. I have learned you cannot win, you just need to keep moving forward
toward the end goal




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:07:13 EST
I wrote in game footage, not gameplay. Not sure why people skip over what others write




Shane
11/10/2021 at 17:05:37 EST
only you're missing the fact E2 launched in Nov 2020 and Decentraland (which I think is cool btw)
launched in 2017. My point was the timeline it to
ok for them to deliver something remotely playable. Anyway, we are pushing along in here, will
keep moving internally.




Shane
11/10/2021 at 16:55:54 EST
Decentraland raised $24M in 2017, had a closed BETA in 2019 and introduced first game play
Feb 2020 .. that's what .. 3 years? We have allowed
as much interaction from day one as we build Earth 2, have shown the first parts of in game
footage (within 2 months from launching, more to com
e)..gotta love this misinformation being sold as the truth. I know everyone wants E2 tomorrow, I do
too, but you have to give us some breathing sp
ace sometimes. We're working hard and there is a chance for everyone to be involved and take
some form of ownership. Support us and let us bui
​ld this right, we're doing this for you all just as much as for ourselves because we're unsure the
 same opportunity is going to come from some of th
 e others out there playing in this field. Keep safe




Shane
11/10/2021 at 15:47:28 EST
that's only for you @butt




Shane
11/10/2021 at 15:45:58 EST
it's not the reward I alluded to for the end of the month. I gotta crash guys - hope you're all doing
well!




Shane
11/04/2021 at 15:07:58 EDT
we will be looking into some soft dates. There are some things we can provide dates for, it's
coming




Shane
11/04/2021 at 15:06:05 EDT
we may be centralised now, but that is not what I want long term. I cannot be sure what other
projects have planned




Shane
11/04/2021 at 15:05:19 EDT
ahh .. I missed this




Shane
11/04/2021 at 15:05:05 EDT
my work here is done for now. I will be dropping back in again soon. Soon I will have a lot more to
talk about (after the upcoming announcements)
which will make it easier to drop in to discuss things. Good to see you all




Shane
11/04/2021 at 15:03:30 EDT
hmm




Shane
11/04/2021 at 15:02:54 EDT
we have been looking at how we do this. I think we have enough now where we can release a
general road map but not sure on dates




Shane
11/04/2021 at 15:01:17 EDT
100% thinking heavily on this. I think this month will provide a clearer picture




Shane
11/04/2021 at 15:00:33 EDT
consider my tweet .. I came in here to kick you guys out onto my tweet so you think about it lol




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:59:34 EDT
21 people now




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:59:11 EDT
it is me who is honoured that you're here. Thanks for believing in us




Shane
​ 11/04/2021 at 14:58:22 EDT
 of course. There is just something else we need to announce first




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:57:34 EDT
6 people now




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:56:32 EDT
much too soon .. come on




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:54:04 EDT
patience. Of course we are working on bigger things




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:53:03 EDT
anyway, it is by no means the big reward. Just something that makes sense leading up to the big
reward for our players




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:52:05 EDT
5 people got it now




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:51:24 EDT
no, but they are really cool guys




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:51:11 EDT
Come on guys .. I have given a really good clue there for those assertive players following along.




Shane
11/04/2021 at 14:48:15 EDT
Mint Choc-Chip. But I can assure you it's not in here .. you're all in the wrong place. 3 people
worked it out now




Shane
08/28/2021 at 10:05:23 EDT
I removed the countdown




Shane
08/28/2021 at 10:03:46 EDT
https://earth2.io/ FYI - I will be more involved for when this circles back




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:25:12 EDT
I have discussed this with WG. Maybe it was overlooked in the How-To article. @frommy97 I've
already covered this with WG, he will be able to in
struct on current implementation.




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:23:36 EDT
actually it's spaghetti bolognese lol .. with beef mince (is that also against the rules?)




Shane
​ 08/28/2021 at 09:22:27 EDT
I am going to eat my dinner guys. Hope you all enjoy the rest of your weekend and see you next
time. Thanks for the chat




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:19:14 EDT
that one of the key goals I want to accomplish




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:18:14 EDT
we would be governed by E1 laws ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:17:52 EDT
glad you get it!




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:16:57 EDT
I answered this above. I need to check with game design but I imagine they should be transferable




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:16:15 EDT
of course .. you can already see elements of us doing this




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:15:47 EDT
yeah, we can pull out our battle axes .. lol Sorry, I probably need the largest one ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:14:52 EDT
I do not know the full details but obviously really cool he sees the reasoning behind e2




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:13:43 EDT
I'd prefer to play a PC game than drink to be honest lol .. but if I had to choose .. there is a beer
called Red Rock in Korea - that one is really nice.




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:12:24 EDT
I rarely drink




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:12:13 EDT
please speak with Thomas about this - would be greatly appreciated




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:11:51 EDT
we're working on the right partner and solution here
Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:10:39 EDT
I heard there were some issues here and I am waiting on a report




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:09:42 EDT
or maybe is already working on that .. ?
​Shane
 08/28/2021 at 09:09:20 EDT
 you are Robin Hood .. it would be an injustice any other way




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:08:29 EDT
I can't keep across everything ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:08:22 EDT
tbh I am not sure about these details. Game design is handling that




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:07:24 EDT
I wish I could join you in there




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:06:27 EDT
I love dropping in as well, will try to drop in more often .. just by the end of each day I am ready to
crash




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:05:28 EDT
I believe it's sitting there as a ticket




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:04:48 EDT
I would like to open something soon where users can submit requests, bugs and vote etc




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:03:19 EDT
but of course .. that's what I'm here for




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:03:02 EDT
exactly what I said when I saw how Mentars were deployed for the first time .. trust me




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:02:28 EDT
many things are still in the pipeline .. not abandoned at all
Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:02:16 EDT
yeah you also look at the things we are doing and are delivered. We can only move so fast without
excessively breaking things




Shane
08/28/2021 at 09:01:07 EDT
that is already coming .. I asked for it to be implemented the other weekly - it's just not live yet




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:59:58 EDT
I want filters / toggles on e2 .. so you can swap to different views .. like a multiverse
​Shane
 08/28/2021 at 08:59:25 EDT
 I actually discussed this the other day and decided it needed to be filtered. So Mentars will not
 block the view for HBs




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:58:27 EDT
good question. I would imagine so but game design would need to confirm




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:58:04 EDT
Ferran created a list of options based on Wolfgang's description then we voted




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:57:16 EDT
I have a list lol




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:56:19 EDT
this would break the rendering of mentars unfortunately ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:55:09 EDT
just a little additional weight on my shoulders hey?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:54:29 EDT
ok I will try to check it out later tonight




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:54:19 EDT
I gave an answer above, all I am able to say right now




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:52:57 EDT
please send a CV through @frommy97 mihaj if you're interested
Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:51:41 EDT
ok I will pass that on




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:51:20 EDT
escaping the lockdowns




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:51:15 EDT
we had to stop incoming flights to Brisbane, 2,000 were trying to enter hotel quarantine a day to
stay up here lol




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:50:05 EDT
a lot of my Sydney colleagues are slowly going mentally insane ..




Shane
​ 08/28/2021 at 08:49:41 EDT
 QLD is fine. Life as normal here, we've blocked the rest of Australia out lol




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:49:17 EDT
couldn't come soon enough




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:48:32 EDT
yes, I love it. With tuna




Shane

08/28/2021 at 08:48:12 EDT
Realise people are bagging in the reactions but I wouldn't be so fast to discount this comment




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:46:28 EDT
I will look into that




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:45:00 EDT
e2.me is a premium domain name and I have bigger plans for it in addition to EPLs




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:44:06 EDT
I cannot expand further on this one at present. Some countries are getting locked for a reason.
Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:43:09 EDT
am completely aware of that I am constantly using our networks to push that forward




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:41:59 EDT
that info should be in the How-To .. if not it should be there in the near future




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:41:24 EDT
oh - I didn't realise ??




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:40:13 EDT
we have many NDAs ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:39:46 EDT
I will have to check what they have planned for that




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:39:11 EDT
I cannot tell you how many companies approached us for investment .. we're just not ready (nor
need it) yet. As ironic as it may sound I do want to
ensure we deliver something that will benefit Players based on what my plans are .. investors can
change that




Shane
​ 08/28/2021 at 08:37:58 EDT
 please send details to Thomas and ask him to forward to me




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:37:29 EDT
no problem. My dinner is just sitting there getting cold lol .. (j/k)




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:36:41 EDT
it's ok - I get it. It's frustrating though because there are things I cannot talk about




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:36:15 EDT
it's not a rush, it's just pushing out a feature that was ready for some time and we need to get it
rolled out before other things can follow




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:35:34 EDT
I often ask myself the same thing
Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:34:35 EDT
well I came in here knowing I would be attacked so I'm not shy. I have just been very busy these
days .. specifically interviewing new staff for anot
her office we're opening




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:33:36 EDT
yes, I am well aware of this commercial requirement. There are so many areas we need to work
on in parallel with others I am not sure everyone
gets that




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:32:30 EDT
I am not legally qualified to answer that question unfortunately .. you'd probably have to spend a
little time studying up yourself




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:31:10 EDT
after EPLs I wanted to revisit sub dividing properties




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:30:59 EDT
that's harder to answer because we already have an intense road map to complete in 2021 .. but
have not forgotten about it




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:30:30 EDT
is like domain names .. you can register whatever you like from what I understand. You may get
away with it or you may not




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:29:28 EDT
I didn't say that




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:28:42 EDT
yes they will be able to pay . As I said buying those names is probably a calculated risk .. we would
just need to follow whatever the legals rules ar
e for inside that country I would imagine
​Shane
 08/28/2021 at 08:27:21 EDT
 I'm not building this to last a few years ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:27:01 EDT
if we all don't share the same vision then what are we doing here?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:26:24 EDT
personally I think most scripts are cool .. I want Earth 2 to be a kind of Player hacky type place
Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:25:36 EDT
as much as I'd love to answer that question you know I should not




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:24:49 EDT
I'm also looking to open a public board soon where users can submit bugs, vote on those bugs
and submit feature requests etc




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:24:15 EDT
I actually reduced the initial price significantly to E$4.95 as I thought it would be better for Players




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:23:38 EDT
people made fortunes of domain names .. I am sure they had some kind of strategy




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:22:42 EDT
I mean if it's legal I would not stop it




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:22:29 EDT
I can't say but I don't see a problem with it personally




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:21:54 EDT
see .. lol ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:21:17 EDT
I would say it's a risk - I can't really recommend anything to you




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:20:23 EDT
yes we are definitely aiming for this year




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:19:33 EDT
then it's open for interpretation. What you might find acceptable the next person may not




Shane
​ 08/28/2021 at 08:19:09 EDT
 I would say not .. as much as I would love the idea of Earth 1 governance being non-existent
 inside Earth 2 I imagine IP / Trademarks will be enfor
 ceable
Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:18:03 EDT
and you have seen what happens if one thing changes from a tweet I created? Then game design
opted to alter something .. this happens. Imagin
e what releasing our road map would do when we change or miss a date?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:16:51 EDT
all of these are in progress




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:16:13 EDT
I can't give you a date as if we miss a date that will come back to haunt us, right ?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:14:32 EDT
You don't need to buy an EPL Luckas - it's just optional for those that wish to reserve a name for
their property earlier




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:12:58 EDT
this and other reasons I cannot disclose




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:12:01 EDT
we're intentionally not selling a product right now ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:09:40 EDT
who said Essence serves no purpose? Just because you cannot use it right now ?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:07:55 EDT
Eminem would be proud lol




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:06:31 EDT
so yeah .. I can easily say hey .. you can buy EPLs with Essence and it's going to be X amount of
Essence for an EPL and Essence will equal E$0
.01 or whatever. Then user to user Essence trades and will likely go up in value and users who
spent their Essence on EPLs when they probably
should have held onto their Essence will come out in force .. we wanted to avoid that




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:04:02 EDT
I have already pointed this out but was advised against it. If we set a price on Essence to EPLs,
then Essence begins user to user trading .. and
the price differs too significantly from those EPL charges (which is likely) we're going to have
thousands of angry people 10x worse than this carryi
ng on
Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:01:52 EDT
thanks for pointing that out




Shane
​ 08/28/2021 at 08:01:00 EDT
 Community management




Shane
08/28/2021 at 08:00:19 EDT
also wanted to point out, for Nathaniel's sake, that he is not involved with game design. So tagging
him and messaging him with complaints is a m
assive distraction. He has nothing to do with game design, he is focused on building out Phase 3
so would appreciate if people consider this




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:57:06 EDT
that's the plan here, right ?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:56:59 EDT
well it will give you something to write about




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:56:23 EDT
yes, I realise that. It was my plan but as I said game design thought differently after the more
advantageous change to allow Essence to be user t
o user traded




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:55:38 EDT
no problem. You guys can continue to attack me, I am quite used to it. Sorry you're upset because
we're charging for something and working out l
ong term sustainability. We have so many things we're working on that will benefit users long term
on the platform, yet as soon as we charge for a
nything it's mayhem




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:53:44 EDT
because you said so ?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:52:48 EDT
and I twisted your arm to buy land ? It's not as if we're not doing anything ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:51:47 EDT
true - I came in to offer an explanation .. too many cooks here thinking they are in the kitchen
Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:50:42 EDT
you're kicking me out of my own channel ?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:50:04 EDT
or just buy one if you want to or don't if you don't want one ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:49:41 EDT
game design changed that based on the fact user to user Essence is planned




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:49:16 EDT
and you have user to user Essence trading coming and Essence will serve a key utility role inside
e2 .. it's not for nothing
​Shane
 08/28/2021 at 07:48:15 EDT
 neither does an EPL .. it's a decision .. if you want to buy a domain name .. buy one .. if you want
 to setup a free social account .. do that




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:47:35 EDT
continuing to screw people for money ? Did we twist people's arm to purchase land? I don't get it ..
how are we continuously screwing people to sp
end money?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:45:57 EDT
and I should follow what you dictate? So you're running the show?




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:45:26 EDT
right ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:45:19 EDT
it's simple guys - if you want an EPL for your property, buy it .. if you don't want one then don't buy
it. Do Epic get this much backlash when releasi

ng a SKIN? You buy it or you don't ..




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:44:12 EDT
no - I have not changed anything




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:43:20 EDT
because we've not posted it yet! We just ran the countdown a few hours ago and ensured all is
working
Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:42:26 EDT
right - and user to user Essence trading is coming .. plus a lot more. A much better result that
using Essence to purchase EPLs .. yet that is compl
etely overlooked




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:41:43 EDT
seeing as though Essence, which is generated by properties, will be user to user traded now our
game design team thought there should be a use
r determined price for Essence once it starts trading. So you can use Essence to purchase EPLs
once that goes live




Shane
08/28/2021 at 07:40:12 EDT
exactly. EPLs are optional people, it's your choice to purchase one or not. It gives you better
exposure and makes your property easier to find. Yo
u can buy one or you can opt not to buy one. @thehazyone - ironically you were talking about our
business model continually giving everything a
way for free and how that was not sustainable, yet you're now in here promoting the exact
opposite ..




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:48:22 EDT
night mate




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:48:12 EDT
it will
​Shane
 06/03/2021 at 13:47:39 EDT
 haha exactly !




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:47:34 EDT
ok




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:47:22 EDT
part in house




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:46:43 EDT
I think @bigfry has maybe gone? Did not see any messages for a while .. is coming up to 4am
here now I need to sleep. Hope you all have a good
day ahead




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:45:55 EDT
that's a big chunk of money !




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:44:05 EDT
yes I thought so .. but tech debt is tech debt and debt is debt lol




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:43:46 EDT
that is so cool .. I think I should follow suit lol




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:42:55 EDT
debt? No debt ..




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:42:35 EDT
yes, you're right lol




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:42:21 EDT
yes, this is really impressive .. created by some very talented devs




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:41:34 EDT
thank you - look forward to telling the full story one day.. people have no idea all the crap we've
had to deal with while also fixing problems and tryi
ng to make progress but it's all coming together better now




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:40:21 EDT
well..




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:39:46 EDT
yes, we would like to add more but it's just one example of how busy we really are right now
​Shane
 06/03/2021 at 13:38:48 EDT
 Essence will be epic ..




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:38:36 EDT
I have just worked an 18 hr shift and supposed to be sleeping now. I dropped in to say hello to the
community then was about to sleep and Bigfry
appeared so I stayed around a little longer




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:37:37 EDT
thanks Chris




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:37:13 EDT
thank you !
Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:36:47 EDT
it is coming. We have experienced some incredible success and we want to caplitalise on that. I
do want to be a little ambitious in this area so we
are working on multiple projects in parallel but as they come together I believe it will cement our
platform exactly where we want it to be




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:33:33 EDT
am trying to spend more time with them. I actually played basketball with my son for 30 mins the
other week !




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:32:47 EDT
he won't even share his URL ..




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:32:31 EDT
right .. why don't you go chase a bank or something ..? Oh that's right because the CEO of a bank
wouldn't be in here chatting with you so you don
't have the chance to criticise them directly ..




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:31:42 EDT
that was a period when we were transitioning to 5CA and Zendesk. Did you send another email
recently ?




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:31:03 EDT
we realise that but we have been trying to lay low while fixing issues from our growth period.
Unfortunately these recent videos just brought us bac
k into the lime light some what before we were prepared




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:30:13 EDT
I am not even sure if this is true and you're picking one case from 10s of thousands? There are
also people who have attempted to hack and explo
it our system who we do not name publicly .. but our team is very well across these users




Shane

06/03/2021 at 13:28:25 EDT
that is not true .. we were working on the terrain engine a long time before launching. I am also a
father of 3 kids .. I don't want to be seen as a sca
m it's embarrassing for my family and children
​Shane
 06/03/2021 at 13:26:44 EDT
 well we expect people to criticise us but when we're labelled a scam or a ponzi scheme without
 just cause or evidence or if there are unsubstantia
 ted / slanderous claims it becomes a little much




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:25:27 EDT
it was not planned in response to your video though, just to be clear, is simply showing that we are
working on the engine introducing physics in
massive environments etc. There is something else we will be releasing over coming weeks with a
bit more to it




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:23:38 EDT
I am not aware of our lawyers serving any documents to you for defamation




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:21:53 EDT
hey @bigfry - I actually didn't mind your initial video as it contained your opinion and I understand
scepticism on what we are doing. We launched
e2 Nov last year and had no idea it would take off this quickly so we have been playing a lot of
catch up over previous months solving issues inher
ited from hypergrowth. I would like to chat with you but is almost 3:30am here now and I have just
finished an 18 hour shift and have to wake up a
gain shortly. I only dropped in to say hello to the community in here quickly




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:17:17 EDT
could you please provide your account URL - just want to see who you are? (Public URL, nothing
private)




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:15:09 EDT
well, I need to make a call and get some sleep before waking up early. Some big things to deal
with tomorrow. Hope you all have a good day




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:13:45 EDT
thank you. I have told my team the same thing. I don't mind them picking on me so much as yes,
this was my idea and I had the guts to do it (told
to me by someone relatively big in SF) .. but would appreciate them just focusing on me and say
whatever but leave my team out of it, they are ju
st trying to do their job. At the end of the day we will just focus on what we need to get done




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:10:01 EDT
true




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:09:43 EDT
lol good idea




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:09:27 EDT
I still have one more call to make before sleeping and already past 3am




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:09:15 EDT
sorry, there is so much going on right now
Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:08:54 EDT
100%
​Shane
 06/03/2021 at 13:08:41 EDT
 yes, we are talking to some from San Francisco but if you're also talented in the field please
 message me I will try to chase up tomorrow




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:08:05 EDT
lol who is that ?




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:07:29 EDT
Nathaniel was in the last 3 hours of my meetings so guess he will also be worn down lol




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:07:10 EDT
it's 3am here and I have been in meeting for around 10hrs today .. and I need to wake up soon so
I probably need to sleep guys - am sorry




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:06:34 EDT
I am not expecting it to be solved any time soon




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:06:06 EDT
exactly




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:05:31 EDT
users have already been issued with Virtual Cards and I am working on the physical card structure
at present




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:05:00 EDT
yes well we will show some things we are working on .. but whatever we show they will also pick
on and focus on something else because that is t
heir agenda here ..




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:03:51 EDT
the second part is separated for a reason




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:02:52 EDT
thank you




Shane
06/03/2021 at 13:02:41 EDT
I was involved in many various projects, I worked on VoIP software and owned a VoiP company,
worked in business development, marketing etc.
I know they are picking on me and my background but at some point in time every successful
person was unknown .. based on their approach onl
y rich and famous people should be allowed to create something new and inspiring meaning
anyone else should perhaps not even try .. they woul
d use products every day created by people like me who stuck their necks out and worked to
create something different yet they do not want to lo
ok at it that way




Shane
06/03/2021 at 12:59:35 EDT
well a ponzi scheme is something where you don't have enough revenue to pay out people when
they request their money, right? So you need to
use incoming funds to pay out requests as that money comes in. We have more than enough
money to pay out every single user should they req
​uire their money out and we are not a ponzi scam .. it's just scaremongering that sells I suppose
 and they do not understand how our business mo
 del works




Shane
06/03/2021 at 12:56:25 EDT
yeah they sell their souls .. I can understand if they want to pick on something that is legitimately a
scam but we have literally been working for mo
nths on fixing our growth issues .. if this was a scam we would have been gone a long time ago




Shane
06/03/2021 at 12:55:36 EDT
I actually created that back in December last year and I believe it should be included in the next
update with updates (will need to check with that t
eam though to be sure)




Shane
06/03/2021 at 12:54:36 EDT
the people making the videos will just continue to do so, they are only interested in speculating on
negative things while ignoring plausible explana
tions




Shane
06/03/2021 at 12:52:06 EDT
yes, will be live next week if all goes well




Shane
06/03/2021 at 12:51:47 EDT
well I believe Nathaniel mentioned that, but it was just a little progress video showing some
physics inside the engine that we plan to record with
Unity UI showing so people don't claim it's pre-rendered. We have discussed another more
interactive display coming up at a later date not too far
away




Shane
06/03/2021 at 12:48:46 EDT
We are working on a statement so people can at least share something when needed. Thank you
for your support.. unfortunately success brings t
his type of behaviour out of some people looking for views to sell ads and make some dollars.. but
yes, we are working on a statement we will add
to our website over coming days that people can refer to.
Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:09:03 EDT
take care all and hope you all have a good, safe day ahead




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:08:47 EDT
more will be coming




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:08:39 EDT
I will try to drop in later in the week. I am late for a meeting




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:07:41 EDT
ok - I am sure Thomas will chase up and pass them on




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:06:55 EDT
these are only the initial resources
​Shane
 05/26/2021 at 06:06:25 EDT
 I have asked Thomas to provide me with the details. Our team will chase up




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:05:56 EDT
yes




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:05:15 EDT
please connect to me via Thomas regarding these details




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:03:42 EDT
I actually mentioned this to one of our C level team today - I will chase up Thomas about it




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:03:10 EDT
I guess there will be stories written about them like the pizza guy .. but hey, they might want to
move onto other things




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:02:34 EDT
OF COURSE !! Man .. we are not working like made for nothing




Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:02:15 EDT
I have not heard of this yet - but I might have missed it too
Shane
05/26/2021 at 06:01:37 EDT
well it is a little better thank you. I have been managing to get some longer sleeps in now and
saying no to meetings too far out from my general sl
eeping time lol .. thanks for remembering and asking !




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:59:51 EDT
ok @frommy97 will check times




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:59:36 EDT
love it !!




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:58:59 EDT
we have plans to open dialogue with NGOs via connections we have but just prepping for phase 2
first .. so many things are moving in the backgr
ound you would not believe it ..




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:58:18 EDT
well .. that is super cool




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:57:40 EDT
no, really ?
​Shane
 05/26/2021 at 05:56:41 EDT
 it's ok - we all have our ways




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:56:25 EDT
no - he found something else




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:56:10 EDT
the hint is in the post




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:55:52 EDT
congrats




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:55:44 EDT
I will notify Thomas




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:55:37 EDT
if I had details I could share right now I would have already shared them .. trust me




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:55:11 EDT
@.chratastrophic is that from the recent post ?




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:54:31 EDT
if I had a secure date I would have listed it. Have written what I can share in the announcement




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:54:06 EDT
I do check from time to time and nobody has claimed yet




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:53:41 EDT
thank you .. but there is a lot to do right now. I wish I could say things were getting easier .. we are
spending so much time strategising on next mo
ves as we want to get it right ..




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:52:46 EDT
true .. :sigh:




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:52:04 EDT
at least some people read




Shane
05/26/2021 at 05:51:40 EDT
haha .. perfect
​Shane
 04/25/2021 at 15:11:07 EDT
 night everyone ! Take care!




Shane
04/25/2021 at 15:10:57 EDT
it just ran out the door ! LOL




Shane
04/25/2021 at 15:10:24 EDT
good night everyone, hope you all have a great day ahead (wish I was chasing that mouse .. I
have a sponge mattress on the floor next to my des
k and that thing drops out of my desk and onto the floor right before I sleep almost every time .. I
swear it's messing with me ..)




Shane
04/25/2021 at 15:00:41 EDT
hah I wish
Shane
04/25/2021 at 15:00:31 EDT
we are still receiving transactions from Korea every few seconds / minutes .. not sure this applies
to us? Might be individuals ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:59:05 EDT
yes, unfortunately this is correct .. trying the best we can right now so massive things we are
working on




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:58:19 EDT
btw - I just checked and the last purchase / transaction from South Korea was 10 seconds ago




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:54:23 EDT
keep an eye out for our announcements then




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:53:23 EDT
I will but from what I understand there is nothing broadly occurring there ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:52:49 EDT
there is a mouse creeping around inside my desk .. it drives me crazy lol




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:51:56 EDT
and they say legends have no name ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:51:35 EDT
it's partnerships, not development




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:51:15 EDT
no no no ! Just get a few tiles then when features come out play the game !
​Shane
 04/25/2021 at 14:50:48 EDT
 still 40 mins behind you all in the chat
 ​#
 Shane
 general
 04/25/2021 at 14:50:39 EDT
 I am just
 Page 4 scanning
 of 5 answers now guys .. I really need to sleep

Generated with Discrub

Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:49:43 EDT
answered above




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:49:35 EDT
still cannot disclose the full details, we are signing off




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:48:31 EDT
ok I will try .. but they might be a little less direct (the tweets)




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:47:53 EDT
very funny ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:47:38 EDT
woohoo




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:47:27 EDT
that is what I want to do but seriously I look at the time and know how little I can sleep .. every time
I chat in here I lose my general sleep time but I will try to make appearances more often - I really
enjoy it




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:46:26 EDT
thank you my friend




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:46:13 EDT
thank you! We will keep battling away !




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:45:34 EDT
almost 5am now .. I am still 45 mins behind in this chat with you all .. answering questions




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:45:07 EDT
yes that is what I am thinking actually




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:44:45 EDT
this lol




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:44:24 EDT
possible right now




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:44:03 EDT
please send it again, I will try to check it tomorrow




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:43:14 EDT
Korea has an amazing gaming scene and awesome adoption of technology ! I was invited to be a
pro gamer in Korea once upon a time but had other projects I was working on ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:42:05 EDT
I am just in zombie mode right now - whoops




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:41:50 EDT
ok - I will try to work something out




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:41:13 EDT
if I could buy tiles right now I would buy in the middle of no where .. probably flat cleared areas
(please don't do this, it's just what I would do as you asked the question)




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:39:49 EDT
Nathaniel and Wolfgang can give a more precises answer on that, but definitely the land,
heightmap and from what I know water systems




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:38:30 EDT
if you decrypt it you'll find out
​Shane
 04/25/2021 at 14:38:14 EDT
 umm ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:38:02 EDT
we are currently working on some massive FE updates which will allow us to move a LOT faster
with implementation in the future




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:37:29 EDT
I will chase this up again but from my understanding there should not be an issue here




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:36:38 EDT
not really
Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:35:49 EDT
if I wake up and see it is solved I will be shocked ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:35:29 EDT
exactly .. so many copy cats .. I mean get your own ideas. So we'd prefer to keep our cards close
to our chest, it will protect us and everyone involved in Earth 2 (though sucks getting details a little
later). I mean we don't ne
ed any funding to continue, we have everything we need so why disclose our whole game plan to
people who cannot come up with their own ideas and just copy us (with no intention or ability to
actually follow though). Be v
ery wary people .. that's all I can say - legally cannot say more right now




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:33:34 EDT
should not take too long but we are working on automated systems which hoping will be live over
the next 4 weeks, then it will be almost instant




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:32:49 EDT
yes we have been doing this, so you're right in the way you are thinking




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:32:01 EDT
another side project, yes, trying to keep up with that too. I want to run some proper test ads in a
selected area then disburse some income to owners of that land to get the ball rolling for POC !




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:30:47 EDT
we need to sign agreements first so I don't want to give a time and be wrong. What I can say is
other things are also coming which we have not announced yet .. so there are things coming
before Essence




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:29:16 EDT
I would like to keep e2 private if possible ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:28:33 EDT
thank you, this was written 40 mins ago and I am just getting to it now .. I was supposed to sleep
90 mins ago lol




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:27:50 EDT
not an easy one .. so please take it slow




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:27:34 EDT
damn .. I knew it would come off like that after I typed it lol
Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:26:58 EDT
because I am working through as best I can .. not sure what you mean here




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:26:23 EDT
we don't want to go viral again right now .. we want to be ready for the next wave and have more
for them to do which is what we are working on!




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:25:37 EDT
I cannot confirm an exact date right now sorry




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:24:51 EDT
yes will be limited




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:24:31 EDT
answered above




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:23:43 EDT
yeah I had not thought about that .. I mean there are much larger things at stake here !
​Shane
 04/25/2021 at 14:22:51 EDT
 yes I was thinking about it again the other day .. would be cool to do this or at least answer
 questions live - so much easier than typing when dead tired




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:22:07 EDT
we are definitely working on more options




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:21:14 EDT
ok I will chase this up. The support is working they are just climbing back through the backlog. I
was at our Sydney office again last week making plans moving forward .. we are getting there and
closing the gap on outstand
ing tickets every day. Will chase up those reset pw and locked account issues - screenshot of your
comment




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:19:42 EDT
haha




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:18:56 EDT
well we made a whole new world ?
Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:18:38 EDT
yes we are considering this, part of the delay




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:18:09 EDT
cannot answer that sorry !




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:17:53 EDT
not really .. they get it. That whole generation will just get it .. my 9 yo daughter desperately wants
to buy land on e2 ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:17:09 EDT
is Iraq the next country people are asking for ?




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:16:37 EDT
why? Because you enjoy watching us get flamed ? lol




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:16:08 EDT
not at this stage




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:15:34 EDT
let me know when you find out




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:14:47 EDT
not sure this is accurate. Our payment code is not crypto related. Have already discussed this with
our acquirer




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:13:59 EDT
it's all good .. all was forgiven and he is fine. We are not going to go crazy about it .. that dev has
done amazing work for us so far and from what I can see some people who missed out are angry
.. nobody was harmed




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:11:26 EDT
not yet I am sorry




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:11:13 EDT
we are working on more options
Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:10:55 EDT
I know our team is discussing this issue with Mapbox (and this is NOT a financial issue .. I saw
some people mention that I mean .. what the?) Anyway, I am not sure where things are at but it
will be resolved, there is an issu
e with data updating




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:09:52 EDT
I am not working on that promotion but I gave permission for that to proceed so possibly this week
I would think




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:09:01 EDT
just a little something I came up with .. some minutes to create but will take much longer to break




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:08:22 EDT
​there are issues logging in over there? In any case, we are putting the right team together for this
 because phase 3 needs to be built correctly. We have an amazingly advanced foundation right
 now and we want to build on t
 op of that with more of the same




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:06:08 EDT
definitely a question for Dillon




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:04:25 EDT
this will happen .. we are working on it. Thank you for your kind words, the trust is not misplaced
and very inspiring to read these words .. thank you




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:03:20 EDT
yes, we will plan another one soon once we have a little space to breathe




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:01:13 EDT
hectic .. I was supposed to sleep an hour ago lol




Shane
04/25/2021 at 14:00:47 EDT
ok I will try to check .. I check randomly, there is no real preference (sorry if I have missed yours I
have so many thousands of messages Discord cannot even retrieve the older ones ..) I was
looking for a guy who created so
me music soundtrack for Earth 2 (in his own time). I really wanted to hear it but could not find it as
the chat history cannot be accessed




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:58:46 EDT
I did not hear about it but if that is true I should now about it .. I love that idea and anything we can
do inside Earth 2 that helps those less fortunate on Earth 1 I want to be part of .. and I am happy
to permanently build in sol
utions to support this. I have some of my own plans here too long term ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:57:30 EDT
we are working on contracts that should warrant an announcement to answer part of that question
soon




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:56:39 EDT
we are all about withdrawals .. even though we paid out millions you mainly hear from those who
have problems and it gives me nightmares .. I can assure you we all, as a team, are very focused
on this. We have new optio
ns we are working on and it's taking up a lot of my time and the teams time to get this done .. so
we are very serious about it, yes




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:54:42 EDT
sorry, I am not involved in that part .. last time I made someone MOD I got in trouble ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:54:14 EDT
yeah cats are cool - I used to have a black cat as a teenager which I taught to be an assassin ..
still have the scar on my chest. That cat was beyond cool ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:52:22 EDT
I answered this already




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:52:03 EDT
the decrypt is real .. but I doubt the latest one will be decrpyted correctly for some time




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:51:20 EDT
one day we will be able to disclose more details around all of this and it will make more sense to
everyone




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:50:29 EDT
we have two of our senior accountants dedicated to monitoring through this week. We were
processing smaller payments and monitoring due to the lower financial risk of a smaller payment
being doubled up on.. we're confi
dent to try some larger payments again this week so please sit tight




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:48:52 EDT
yes, less chaos in a way ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:48:31 EDT
sorry, I am spending most of my time here scrolling up trying to find questions to answer - is why
there is a gap between answering each time as I need to manually scroll up and find where I was
up to then start scanning ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:47:51 EDT
not today sorry - we are working on it .. quite complicated the next announcement is




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:47:24 EDT
could you please share your user ID or URL with me ?




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:45:11 EDT
​not planning for this right now, a large VC wanted to path a way to IPO for us but we were not
 ready to commit just yet




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:44:13 EDT
if I were going to 'pack my bags' (which has never even been a possibility) it would have
happened a long time ago .. not sure why this mentality is still floating around




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:42:55 EDT
haha I wish I could have some .. maybe not even allowed a slice right now ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:42:25 EDT
we are working on those




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:41:42 EDT
yes I heard about it but there is really little we could do. I mean this was accidental but if we run a
countdown we receive 100x more hate .. death threats .. you name it (from those who miss out)




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:39:41 EDT
we closed the countries quite fast after the ream realised. We are working on so many things
internally right now and did not have a count down so those people who found it just got lucky ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:36:35 EDT
If you know I won't then you know right




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:34:33 EDT
if you could see what I see you'd feel very confident ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:33:28 EDT
haha .. you want my MRI scans? Man I hate those machines .. and I had to have it done in the
smallest version I think a 60cm width .. had to close my eyes and imagine I was floating around in
e2 .. actually it had me thin
king that VR would help so much in such cases .. especially for the poor children that have to go
through that experience




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:31:43 EDT
does anything ever go as planned? We had Essence and EPLs all ready to go .. our dev team
spent weeks preparing and passing QA so it would operate at scale then a last minute shadow
appeared and everything chang
ed




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:29:56 EDT
oh my goodness! This is epic! I love Frank Sinatra .. love this! Thanks for bringing it to my
attention




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:28:02 EDT
oh I see - yes, unfortunately one of our lead web devs missed it and by the time it was discovered
people had purchased. We are not going to reverse those purchases.




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:26:19 EDT
yes, literally feel like the world is on my shoulders right now! But we will get there!




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:25:17 EDT
you have no idea how much I would love to answer this question for you




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:24:58 EDT
it's not just about employing people .. it's about employing the right people - this part is difficult but
we are making good progress. I am starting to have some extremely capable people operating
around me




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:23:09 EDT
haha ok .. maybe I will try to drop some more tweets about things happening even though they are
not 100% wrapped up




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:21:59 EDT
actually .. dealing with a few health issues due to extended overwork (according to my doctor) but
I am trying to manage those. Am still working around the clock




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:21:12 EDT
yes, I realise this but these things do not happen over night. There are some massive plans in
motion and we cannot announce anything until all the documents and agreements are finalised ..
Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:20:01 EDT
yes I do feel bad I don't manage enough time to drop in these days but honestly the schedule is
just insane ..




Shane
04/25/2021 at 13:19:30 EDT
well still alive, so that's a start .. just another day in paradise lol ..




Shane
​ 04/25/2021 at 13:18:51 EDT
 I am here - sorry I have not been in to chat recently we just have so many things going on and I
 am very focused on delivering




Shane
04/17/2021 at 13:21:01 EDT
sorry, I am in meetings guys.. past 6 hours still on meetings




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:25:47 EDT
you beat me to it!




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:24:36 EDT
good night everyone. Hope you all have a good day and keep safe. I have a few things more to do
here now then I will sleep. Thanks for the chat




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:21:56 EDT
please try revolut - if not please read my other comments about I mentioned that our payments
team are working on new options




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:20:56 EDT
are you complaining that the tiles you thought were 10x10 are 15x15? I think I have heard it all
now ..




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:20:16 EDT
I hope so .. I want people to be uploaded into Earth 2 . I want my children to be able to talk to me
once I pass on .. or a representation of me that can do ... things




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:19:12 EDT
ok I will - he will like to hear that




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:18:48 EDT
it's hard to juggle this .. we have reasons we keep those details confidential and we have enough
funds to last us a long time for development so no need to just tell any would be copy cats all of
our plans




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:17:20 EDT
Nathaniel proved that not to be the case




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:16:42 EDT
seems like an amazing individual




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:16:20 EDT
yeah I really do need to sleep .. I have a lot to do on Saturday and numerous meetings on top of
that




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:15:30 EDT
green and black




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:14:47 EDT
if we rush something out (and this is not even from a programmatic sense but also from a game
design sense) then it is prone to be broken. Wolfgang and his team have pages and pages and
pages of design documentatio
n for numerous features that are coming - these need to be designed properly. THe flip side is we
rush something out and it is not well designed and is then impossible to roll back and fix .. we are
onto something much too
big to risk that. Other small projects can pivot and try things quickly when they have next to no
users .. we are not exactly in the position to do that and we are under scrutiny every day .. we're
being cautious




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:11:42 EDT
yes I love olives




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:10:44 EDT
I think Thomas has gone back and fixed that issue. I am not involved with the Easter Egg Hunt
results but I have definitely asked for it to be completely rechecked and I know Thomas has spent
a lot of time doing that




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:09:24 EDT
please read my comment above about marketing, ads etc. We are in control of that




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:08:47 EDT
haha
Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:08:39 EDT
actually I sleep on a thin mattress on the floor next to my PC lol




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:07:51 EDT
and to that I would agree
​Shane
 04/16/2021 at 14:07:30 EDT
 nope never drink that .. just water




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:06:56 EDT
we are constantly looking at these things .. we have professionals that completely understand
such developments and we move forward based on their advice




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:05:19 EDT
they are working on some other critical updates, but yes, they can and they are and next week I
am going to chase up low lying fruits where possible




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:04:25 EDT
there is a team working on that area specifically and I don't want to throw times out - I just want
them to remain focused and we progress to get the job done




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:03:26 EDT
well .. I slept 4am yesterday morning, woke up 7am, got a flight, 11 hours of meetings, flight back
at 8pm, worked .. it's now 4am today) and I am here chatting with you guys




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:02:37 EDT
maybe we need to make you a mod lol




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:02:21 EDT
thank you




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:02:00 EDT
I am not sure from the top of my head, if you mean FE web I think 4-5 ?




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:01:24 EDT
it may have been during the swap over period, some were going to our Sydney office and some
going to 5CA - could have been the reason




Shane
04/16/2021 at 14:00:47 EDT
it's all good .. throw your toxicity at me if it helps ease the hatred




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:59:58 EDT
I am not directly involved but I receive daily reports. We have increased the number of staff there
and what I understand there are a group working on backlogs and that delayed response time is
closing in daily




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:57:38 EDT
ok cool




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:57:22 EDT
that is exactly true




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:57:10 EDT
I have answered this before many times ..




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:56:52 EDT
I didn't say I am not worried (but I am not for the record) - we have our plan and we are going to
follow through. I don't see this as a bad thing for us at all .. not sure you're fishing for an article
here but I thought what they ar
e doing looked cool, apart from that there are many things we know, which we are working on, that
they likely won't have .. and even if they do our plans account for that.. I don't see them as
competitors to our overall vision
and internal plans here ..




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:54:37 EDT
actually I think that comment has been there since November or something .. and I think they were
being sarcastic ..




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:53:53 EDT
I have never told anyone the price will go up or down .. and not going to start now sorry. It
depends on supply, demand and market ..




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:52:35 EDT
that's when you know something is real ..




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:52:24 EDT
we have never paid a content creator for anything .. ever .. the only money we have spent is on fb
ads and that is minimal. Not sure when or if our position will change on that .. I like seeing content
that people create without
the need of getting paid for it
Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:51:10 EDT
I would suggest to see how things play out. We are obviously working hard to bring options in as
early as possible and there are some things coming much sooner, however, when we get into the
AAA quality 3D buildings w
​e want to get it right .. it's coming




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:49:34 EDT
oh ok - I thought it worked every time. Worth trying that though .. our payments team have some
things in the pipeline coming out over next couple of weeks that should solve everything for people
not able to receive .. so ju
st waiting for that to come together




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:48:35 EDT
man that is touching .. I remember back in December when I had a chance to see people posting
their happy stories around Christmas of buying nice presents for their families due to Earth 2 ..
was really touching and I wan
t to build Earth 2 in way that supports more of that for the people that put time and effort in




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:47:00 EDT
I heard if you create a revolut account and link an online card there it will work 100% - pretty
simple from what I understand .. then use our CC payout service




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:46:19 EDT
we know what they are but not releasing the details yet




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:45:42 EDT
not if I have my way but I cannot commit to that - but you will see some things are coming shoon ..
3D maps will go live and then some weeks after other things are planned and things will proceed
from there




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:44:29 EDT
lol thank you




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:44:03 EDT
ok .. we are in control of this. We can flick the switch any time on our marketing they are achieving
unprecedented ROAS' still .. like crazy. We have all the funds we need and we are just prepping
for the next campaign onc
e we are ready.




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:42:38 EDT
no no - he would be extremely careful!




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:42:13 EDT
I have a PhD in keeping my mouth shut until it's time to tell lol




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:41:55 EDT
not years ! Once everything is aligned you will see things pumping out - it's coming




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:41:18 EDT
this week I have averaged 4 hrs sleep per day I think. I need to sleep more I know - it's not a good
thing ..




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:40:20 EDT
yes I agree - want to do this but we have so many confidential things going on it's hard to make
sure nobody spills the beans ..




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:39:44 EDT
yes that are good thank you. But another school holiday is just about passed and my kids have
been upset we couldn't go anywhere as I am just working all day every day .. I told them next
holiday I'll try to take them some
where




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:38:09 EDT
haha - good luck! That would be the rarest NFT ever ..




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:37:33 EDT
way too early




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:37:14 EDT
just answered that above




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:36:28 EDT
I think it looks really cool - makes me excited about what we are building and the plans I have for
Earth 2 are not at all threatened by this .. quite the opposite




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:35:30 EDT
I can't announce the details tomorrow! But will try to give a little more info once my head is clear.
Slept 6 hours in the past 48+




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:34:49 EDT
no we are not selling out! lol ... come on ..
​Shane
 04/16/2021 at 13:34:32 EDT
 I thought this was fixed but will check up
Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:34:12 EDT
I am sorry, it's confidential but we are working on massive, massive agreements in the background
right now




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:33:32 EDT
trust me .. you should be. I know people will be disappointed but when you all find out why later
you will be like .. 100% pumped!




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:32:37 EDT
I don't drink coffee .. and have to avoid fast food




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:31:17 EDT
I will tweet a bit on it tomorrow but more or less that is the scoop




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:30:59 EDT
I will post a tweet tomorrow - Essence and EPLs are 100% ready to launch but something really
big came up and if we delay it will benefit every land holder on e2 significantly long term




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:29:13 EDT
we have not had a break since Dec .. we created that in a hope to record updates .. when we do
update there it will be crazy




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:27:13 EDT
got a screenshot of this and will share in dev chat right after




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:26:39 EDT
why be scared? lol




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:26:24 EDT
yeah that is odd - you're not like 14 or something ?




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:26:00 EDT
yup - I am 100% with you. I have been so focused on other parts of the business I will jump back
in to those smaller updates to make sure that team devotes time to improving those areas. There
are a few fixes coming earl
y next week already




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:24:47 EDT
are you sure the documents are correct?




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:24:02 EDT
ok I will try to chase up tomorrow - going to try to catch up on things tomorrow and over the
weekend .. hoping to drop into chat on Sunday to say hello




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:22:24 EDT
details will be released .. but I will make a tweet about this tomorrow. Something very big has
come up .. in a good way




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:21:50 EDT
I think Thomas is approving for prizes to be credited so probably next week




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:20:58 EDT
yes, was a really good meeting .. almost 6 hours haha .. but some big things developing




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:20:03 EDT
yes, it was really refreshing lol But it's now 3:20am and I have slept 6 hours in the past 2 days and
really need to get some sleep




Shane
04/16/2021 at 13:18:57 EDT
how can you even serve documents on a project that doesn't have (or show) a company name, is
not where they say they are, team does not seem to exist, their site is not secure / encrypted (so
yea, if you sign up there ex
pect your email and pw to probably be intercepted) .. most things don't seem to work on their
webpage. I am all for people being creative but this .. yea .. That's my 2 cents, not even going to
bother focusing on it as that is w
hat they want




AE1.png
29.3KB




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:48:23 EDT
​ok I really need to sleep - going now for sure. Have a good day all!




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:48:01 EDT
you will see .. there is a right time for everything




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:46:10 EDT
I often hear people yelling in the kitchen when I order my steak lol




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:45:18 EDT
exactly lol




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:45:00 EDT
what about no beer? lol




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:44:31 EDT
medium well done steak ? HAHA




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:44:07 EDT
haha .. sitting back having a genuine laugh here .. will have to think of some other things I can be
crucified for




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:42:54 EDT
I know - I get the same reaction from every Italian I know LOL




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:40:17 EDT
I ask for extra pineapple on my pizza from my local Italian restaurant (who know me very well) and
this is what I get. Haha.. I’ve never seen so much pineapple on a pizza before. Usually when I ask
for extra pineapple I get l
ike 3 extra pieces from other stores.




image0.jpg
1.25MB




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:36:39 EDT
yes we will have plans for this and don't get me wrong - I love the fact people want to use our logo
- I still remember one user getting an E2 tattoo on his leg around 6 weeks after we launched




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:35:36 EDT
anyway, I need to catch some sleep all. Hope you all have a great day




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:34:28 EDT
those buildings are seriously nothing compared to what the end product will look like .. the
buildings used there are only a tease




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:33:47 EDT
using our logo is a bit different guys .. lol .. I am talking about using the words Earth 2 in URLs etc.
It would really depend how the logo was used but I know we are going to look into this .. much the
same way that Faceboo
k and other well known tech brands allow their logo to be used




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:30:51 EDT
I cannot say for sure but my initial feeling would be if you're genuinely supporting us and not
openly damaging our name or pretending to be us then I don't see us taking any type of serious
legal action - I personally think m
ost of it is really cool




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:28:31 EDT
wait to be contacted by our official social media account for whatever social media platform you
posted on




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:27:18 EDT
our team have not had time to look into this tbh




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:26:32 EDT
@frommy97 needs to go to a dinner guys, please leave him be and just DM him - he will check it.
AND if you do DM him please SHARE YOUR EVIDENCE WITH HIM! Including a URL and
explanation .. or I would suggest
him to just ignore it




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:25:30 EDT
they are not affiliated with us and from what I understand they are using our API within the
restrictions we set (so it's like someone just monitoring the site constantly and reporting to other
users). When we have time we will
create our own official API but for now they do not seem to be breaking any rules in delivering
data to users. I am not sure what else they do so cannot fully answer




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:17:10 EDT
ok yeah .. so I guess we should all just pack up and go home
​Shane
 04/11/2021 at 16:14:47 EDT
 Thomas has those - he did an amazing (and difficult) job tracking everything .. super hero




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:14:14 EDT
it's coming




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:13:39 EDT
sorry you didn't win joner .. but feel free to stay in here and roast us for a few more hours if it
makes you feel any better
Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:12:26 EDT
or my DMs .. or friends DMs .. or comments on posts .. or Discord and every other place it's
impossible for us to track or make public




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:11:38 EDT
please read the announcement ..




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:11:09 EDT
we have not structured the details yet but most likely yes, if we can do that




Shane
04/11/2021 at 16:09:40 EDT
hey guys - we were very transparent in the results so people can validate and review. If you feel
you have a legitimate claim please ping @frommy97 with your evidence and we will review that.
That is the point we shared s
o much information in the post - please don't get sour just reach out with the evidence and we will
review it




Shane
04/11/2021 at 15:24:40 EDT
yup lol




Shane
04/11/2021 at 15:24:00 EDT
exactly .. I better get back to it - is almost 5:30am and I need to get some sleep in after this
announcement




Shane
04/11/2021 at 15:23:34 EDT
I do hope so, it is in our pipeline




Shane
04/11/2021 at 15:23:03 EDT
will work the same as any other platform .. if someone is crazy enough to secure a trademark they
should expect it to be challenged and risk their outlay ..




Shane
04/11/2021 at 15:21:54 EDT
umm .. if every user withdrew every E$ in Earth 2 tomorrow we could cover it many times over .. I
say it's just fear mongering or people trying to pressure us by causing fear (but I am not aware of
E2THEBOSS stating such
things, we are working with him to get his withdrawal processed..)




Shane
04/11/2021 at 15:18:54 EDT
lol for sure




Shane
04/11/2021 at 15:18:11 EDT
yes I do .. I usually ask for extra from my local Itanlian restaurant and I have a really funny photo of
how much they actually put on last time .. would blow your mind




Shane

04/11/2021 at 15:16:40 EDT
I guess if you have people trying to copy you then it means you're onto something big .. I am just
focused on what we are doing and making sure we keep focused. Good luck to them if things get
real because people have N
O IDEA about all of the things which happen behind the scenes and all of the things we have
accomplished behind closed doors. I am just focusing on what we are doing and making sure
we're on the right path.




Shane
04/11/2021 at 15:10:49 EDT
I wish everyone could win .. but we need to pay respect to those who got the job done! Long term
we all win anyway




Shane
04/11/2021 at 15:09:31 EDT
yup - almost done




Shane
04/03/2021 at 20:09:28 EDT
and have bots trawling our website non-stop for weeks? New hunts will come .. don't worry




Shane
04/03/2021 at 20:08:23 EDT
thank you. I have to go guys .. hope you all enjoy a good Easter and keep safe. Is 10am here and I
have slept 3 hrs now need to take my family out so have to get moving. Really excited over
coming weeks and I will try to t
weet some teasers over the next few days on things in motion behind scenes (some things that
is). I am not sure if all prizes have been claimed yet so good luck to those who keep persevering !
​Shane
 04/03/2021 at 20:05:53 EDT
 I am not sure we are going to those extremes !




Shane
04/03/2021 at 20:04:31 EDT
please read the text in the video. These buildings are just a TEASE! In the future they will be
extremely customisable and even user created .. please read text in the video when you have a
chance




Shane
04/03/2021 at 20:03:37 EDT
100000000000% !




Shane
04/03/2021 at 20:03:11 EDT
makes me laugh every time .. I want to buy one lol




Shane
04/03/2021 at 20:02:02 EDT
because the others will come out over time .. why can't we give people an insight?




Shane
04/03/2021 at 20:00:46 EDT
we gave ourselves a window - when did we save we will have manual labour checking this for a
whole week? Come on .. you think I am going to allocate full dev hours to check hashtags?




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:59:17 EDT
we already wrote in the rules over the next week - not instantly. Congrats too




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:58:34 EDT
cannot say anything until it is reviewed but I hope you have




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:57:21 EDT
not really funny. . the 50 follow ups may not be claimed yet .. why not try ?




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:56:56 EDT
yes I love Starcraft .. my son got back into SC2 these days and teasing me but alas I do not have
time to play. Wolfgang has plans in this area though and I am sure they will be amazing - I am
certainly looking forward to th
em !




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:55:27 EDT
we are building a massive game .. massive platform .. this is only Phase 1 - please read up to get
more of an understanding but we are still in very early stages




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:54:25 EDT
we wanted bots to ask the same question ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:53:55 EDT
I am not making any promises but I want them to start in Phase 2 - we are trying to make that work




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:52:47 EDT
haha made my day ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:52:34 EDT
yeah I noticed that word slipped in the 5CA announcement .. you guys have such a keen eye lol ..
we are working on some big things
Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:51:50 EDT
we gave as many details as we were comfortable to give .. without giving people too much of a
chance to abuse / cheat .. I don't regret that at all




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:50:47 EDT
we didn;t say anything about people being able to claim multiple eggs .. we will probably review
that as results come in




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:50:00 EDT
hmm I am not sure about that .. maybe guys from Mapbox playing a trick ? lol




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:49:03 EDT
sorry TQMA - it's difficult for me to stop and read every PM - I have thousands .. I am not sure
what went wrong for you but we have explained the rules as best we can to make it fair. In the
future I want to have rules in diffe
rent languages too but this time around we didn't get a chance to do that - apologies




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:47:21 EDT
you are on point I am not sure yet - but in any case each Egg can be claimed 50x
​Shane
 04/03/2021 at 19:46:28 EDT
 yes, make sure the post is PUBLIC and has the hashtag #Earth2EggHunt so we can find you




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:45:51 EDT
yes, they are coming very soon - and it will be the opening for something else coming over coming
weeks .. something else users can spend Essence on




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:45:12 EDT
please read posts and rules - we dropped some news there (when you have time)




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:44:00 EDT
criticism or defamation ? Some people cannot tell the difference and become a little too bold when
we allow them to express criticism ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:43:01 EDT
someone please screenshot this comment for the future .. lol




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:42:20 EDT
depends what quality you watch the video in .. we tried to make them as easy to discover as
possible in lower quality - we know where all of them are so we can identify if it is accurate or not
Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:40:13 EDT
you don't have to post your profile - we will track you down if you didn't (and if you won
something). We just suggested it .. and if you have 2FA on and have not used a silly password
your account is very safe ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:38:40 EDT
hopefully over the next week we will switch it on - just want to make sure it needs 2FA to toggle




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:38:03 EDT
crazy hey? I am not sure what their motives are tbh ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:37:21 EDT
yes, we are working on that too - these things don't happen over night but a team is actively
working on this. I had a conference call with US lawyers yesterday morning with regards to it




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:36:44 EDT
Facebook will count - we will watch time stamps




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:36:27 EDT
once EPL and Essence are live a while we will roll out that option




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:35:32 EDT
we will have a team check everything over the next week - just don't delete your posts obviously ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:34:35 EDT
please read rules carefully ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:34:21 EDT
yes




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:34:11 EDT
nice summary .. thank you




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:33:35 EDT
please see comments above .. we gave people warning and 3 platforms .. maybe if we hold
another one like this it will be on our own social media platform ..
Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:32:40 EDT
yes 100% ok




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:32:05 EDT
exactly .. we tested that. Thanks for confirming here




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:31:42 EDT
I was told at least 3 are found from what we could see - but all will be reviewed
​Shane
 04/03/2021 at 19:30:27 EDT
 I hope so .. or paid for one lol




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:29:42 EDT
becuase if they are private then everyone will scream it was rigged .. simple ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:29:22 EDT
yes, there are updates coming I might release a few teasers on what's coming on my twitter over
the next few days - but really pumped about everything happening in the background .. our 2 char
domain name is just abo
ut ready to go live also which will like in with the whole EPL / teleported concept moving forward ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:25:39 EDT
pause and read the text .. in the video ........




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:24:57 EDT
we only need to find the first 255 ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:24:20 EDT
I am not sure - we will have a team following up on this and winners announced within the week.
So obviously don't delete your posts ..




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:23:08 EDT
the NFTs will look like they do in the original Easter egg poster




Shane
04/03/2021 at 19:21:38 EDT
this is nothing about running a server .. it's about not allowing bots to find eggs and then everyone
complaining that bots found the eggs. We have a massive amount of work in our laps right now
and this was the fastest / m
ost interesting / fair way to run the hunt without risking bots and allowing us to keep focusing on
our internal progress. Seems those who doubled down and looked for the eggs found them .. and
they will get some cool priz
es and some very rare NFTs .. like E$30K in prizes and we still get burned by some .. makes me
question their motives




Shane
04/03/2021 at 18:32:45 EDT
you can but the #Earth2EggHunt is the most important




Shane
04/03/2021 at 18:32:27 EDT
we will check it later




Shane
04/03/2021 at 18:32:12 EDT
awesome !




Shane
04/03/2021 at 18:31:50 EDT
and people have already found some




Shane
04/03/2021 at 18:31:39 EDT
please don't DM me it if you find one .. you need to follow the rules and post to social media. That
is part of the rules I cannot accept findings via DM .. needs to be public so everyone can verify




Shane
04/03/2021 at 18:18:40 EDT
they are in the video this time round - hidden very well. If people want them they will find them and
own the first ones .. it's not supposed to be easy. Look forward to seeing who finds them.




Shane
04/01/2021 at 11:27:15 EDT
I am in our weekly sync meeting




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:42:14 EDT
I need to do a few things before sleeping so I have to tap out. Glad I could say hello and thanks for
the love and support. Our whole team are super pumped to be processing payments faster
already and this system we hav
e will only get better .. we are only on first step




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:39:21 EDT
for sure .. explained exactly how it feels




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:37:53 EDT
please contact support with screenshots and will go to the correct dept




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:37:16 EDT
we are working on some really big things .. let's see how they work out and when ready we will
make the appropriate announcement I think my sarcasm was a little too subtle on the crypto Q




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:34:41 EDT
​yes we have plans for that




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:33:05 EDT
yup




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:32:40 EDT
always lol




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:29:33 EDT
there is a process in place. I spoke with him today and tested some payments with him




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:28:18 EDT
what's crypto ?




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:28:02 EDT
thanks .. I wish I could but there are just too many things going on .. if I take a day off I will be
catching up over a week .. I work around 20 hrs a day .. cannot make that time up easily




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:27:12 EDT
it might be faster .. and literally takes a few mins




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:26:47 EDT
yes our payments team are aware of a few cases - we are hoping to hear back more today. We
tried to reverse them but the they did not reverse (usually not an issue!). We will find out more but
in the interim if you contact
support and tell them about your issue and request those funds be credited to your account we will
try ot help you there




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:23:33 EDT
I just received a PM from the user who withdrew over $30K .. he just confirmed he received it




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:20:54 EDT
will not be a requirement .. this one everyone can participate in .. just will take some perseverance
and patience
Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:18:27 EDT
it's their money .. if they want to cash out that is their choice at the end of the day. We have some
pretty big things we are working on and those things (IF they happen) will reward users who have
a higher E$ balance and
who hold their properties .. in fact rewarding those who believe in us .. cannot say 100% sure
when but we're working on some things in that area. End of the day it's their credits they can
decide if they want to withdraw or n
ot




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:15:57 EDT
nooo .. I want to have normal dreams again




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:15:20 EDT
we are always so grateful for their time and effort - will have to work out something one day for
sure




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:14:30 EDT
haha I wish .. there are still so many things to do ..




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:14:01 EDT
please contact support with details on that one - it will filter down to the correct department




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:12:54 EDT
but I think I can sleep a little better now having this released




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:12:38 EDT
yes, well it's all the time really lol




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:12:00 EDT
get parents to do it I would say ..




Shane
03/30/2021 at 08:11:19 EDT
no I am here - just can barely keep my eyes open lol




Shane
03/30/2021 at 02:40:10 EDT
lol
​Shane
 03/30/2021 at 02:33:19 EDT
 the team will get to it - we are working on flows and testing things - but this system will work so
 much faster than bank withdrawal and almost no space for human error most importantly !
Shane
03/30/2021 at 02:31:11 EDT
yes, 100 already paid successfully - there are some that have failed mainly due to 1 - their bank
account cannot take USD or 2 - their banking system has not caught up with this technology yet
(50% of US banks basically).
We are working on other solutions for this. Announcement coming soon with full details




Shane
03/28/2021 at 19:50:50 EDT
cannot disclose the full flow here but they are stored encrypted and we will also use them for
evidence on users who requested the payout. Additionally it should reduce scam / fraud attempts
as they know they will have the
se checks before being able to remove their account funds




Shane
03/28/2021 at 19:48:49 EDT
seriously though .. I need to go to the shops to get some food .. looks like it's a 3 day lock down ..
need to find a mask :/




Shane
03/28/2021 at 19:47:25 EDT
why do I read about this news here? I just had to google to confirm that lol .. I better go and buy
some food .. damn covid .. I will be back later guys - just lodge your requests for now with ID
checks




Shane
03/27/2021 at 13:45:22 EDT
would you like the honest answer? As mentioned in the announcement we planned to release the
hunt today, yes, but we also spent all week trying to wrap up CC payouts and it's actually a very
complicated process with m
any various checks and security requirements that we need to get right. Last weekend we were
very close but things came up and we needed more time on CC payouts. We were still
considering launching the hunt but we l
ooked at the requirements of the hunt and it was not ideal to be releasing it when we're still
wrapping up the CC payout system - had we pushed ahead people would be complaining that we
pushed ahead. In the future we
will delay things if we need to but obviously this is only when necessary




Shane
03/27/2021 at 13:35:42 EDT
sorry, I was going to come in for a chat but 8 hours sleep over almost 4 days now .. even I need
some sleep now. Will hopefully catch up in this chat with everyone after we get CC payouts live, I
just want to get that live so
we can pay people faster .. literally dreaming about it these days ..




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:19:50 EDT
no I am sorry




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:17:29 EDT
yeah I am off guys .. thanks for the chat. Cannot wait until things start rolling out .. once CC
withdrawals and Support is done, am looking at something I want to acquire and there is other
tech I want to keep pushing .. plus s
o many things that will be coming out
Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:16:00 EDT
true !




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:15:46 EDT
so is this a race between Saudi and Israel ?




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:15:19 EDT
yes please .. but you might be trying to buy from a frozen scam account




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:14:58 EDT
I am not sure but I wish I could teleport there right now




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:14:32 EDT
they are all amazing .. I cannot wait to see them coming into fruition




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:13:55 EDT
yes, I have sacrificed 1/3 of my sleep today to be here with you guys lol




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:13:16 EDT
so many to choose from .. but I love a casserole / stew .. over open fire in a camp oven.. about
once a year lol




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:11:27 EDT
hi




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:10:31 EDT
I meant from a legal sense - I said talk to .. not ask




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:09:59 EDT
actually .. I did have an idea for this - but would be for Phase 3
​Shane
 03/22/2021 at 19:08:39 EDT
 I would recommend he talk to his parents




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:05:53 EDT
yes
Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:05:40 EDT
would you sell your baby ?




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:05:21 EDT
of course it is




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:04:31 EDT
nope




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:04:03 EDT
for sure - I had two languages ready to be paid for and translated then we went viral .. but our
acting COO Flo is onto this and has implemented this on massive projects before - so it will come.
He applied it to a company he
was CEO of that scaled from a few employees to over 700 - so he knows what to do




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:01:36 EDT
we will open an application via the website as soon as we have the spare time




Shane
03/22/2021 at 19:00:57 EDT
you have no idea what is moving in the background .. we have so many features and directions in
motion .. so many and we're kicking goals. It will come out over time




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:59:13 EDT
of course we do - looking at options




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:57:39 EDT
we are running our race. We know what we're doing




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:57:12 EDT
the real question is when can I set aside one hour .. lol




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:55:55 EDT
When people come in and ask about it endlessly for 4 months




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:55:23 EDT
you will not need to buy tiles for this first part (cannot say on future parts but at present buying tiles
to find an egg is not on the board)
Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:54:34 EDT
yes, on the list for this week hopefully .. on the bright side $0.01 bid complaints are non-existent




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:54:06 EDT
sorry I cannot give hints out here today




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:53:12 EDT
yes, if they are verified




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:52:53 EDT
will release details on that when properties can be split




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:52:36 EDT
not this time




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:51:22 EDT
no date but we want people to fully grasp EPLs first and have a good chance to register one




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:49:16 EDT
it will come when the time is right
​Shane
 03/22/2021 at 18:47:55 EDT
 yeah it was definitely part of our discussions




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:46:14 EDT
it's coming




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:43:56 EDT
yes, that was actually sent to me on WhatsApp from 'someone' in the UAE




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:43:11 EDT
we have not announced anything yet but we are reviewing. Some users had multiple browsers
open and we're looking into that ..




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:41:19 EDT
will be
Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:41:09 EDT
not tired but I need to get back to work .. plus my son goes on camp tomorrow for 3 days and I
have not spent time with him in weeks so want to try to wrap up my work, have a nap and spend
some time with him this aftern
oon




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:40:19 EDT
yes, it's on the board - I feel the pain sorry




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:39:59 EDT
to publicly receive death threats and present a target? I was there and apologised officially plus
made announcements .. and we are still working on things moving forward. Of course I want
everyone to benefit but not everyo
ne can win .. and might take a moment to consider you're involved in the early stages of a project
that has the capability to even generate that hype .. imagine of things to come. I mean a few
months ago we were not here a
nd a couple of days ago we had 2m page hits after a countdown




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:37:19 EDT
it was reviewed and would not work well on e2 .. in addition to that I personally believe once
Phase 2 and 3 progress things will move a lot more




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:36:11 EDT
IF




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:35:52 EDT
yes lol




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:35:32 EDT
we have solutions on the board




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:34:47 EDT
not sure what you want me to answer here - because I wanted to take a holiday? We have so
many things in motion plus we then needed to find time to review UAE and keep other features in
progress .. literally slept 4 hour
s the past 2 days




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:33:06 EDT
it's on the board




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:31:55 EDT
from what I understand, no - but we have plans for resources to be P2P and if we get it right that
will be MASSIVE




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:30:56 EDT
ok




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:30:46 EDT
not bank account - CC. Debit CC are better from what I understand but some might benefit from
CC too




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:30:02 EDT
cool - interested in game economies ?




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:29:12 EDT
no - I am not aware of this
​Shane
 03/22/2021 at 18:28:33 EDT
 told you it was pushed




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:28:12 EDT
not sure but at present it will stick with the property




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:27:52 EDT
what's a crypto coin ?




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:27:04 EDT
is coming




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:26:50 EDT
just pushed hotfix for potential fix of marketplace issue and bidding issue - should be fully rolled
out in 40 mins




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:24:46 EDT
once CC and withdrawals are caught up at least significantly .. then once Support is fully
streamlined with the new setup coming. Have been reviewing submissions for marketing plans




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:23:09 EDT
I am not sure - it depends whether your account can take E$ and there will be KYC checks
Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:21:40 EDT
I agree - and Zendesk with our new Support agency is almost read to go live - they will report bugs
in better fashion and deliver to our team




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:20:33 EDT
users can request to withdraw their E$ into USD directo the CC or Credit Debit Card




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:19:49 EDT
lol - who thought that ?




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:19:36 EDT
yes




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:18:24 EDT
debit is actually better




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:16:55 EDT
once we catch up it will shave much more than that .. the CC system is completely streamlined
and means our team can focus on a smaller group of scripted checks as opposed to dealing with
thousands of human errors




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:15:33 EDT
yes, if you're funds are still there. If you're funds are are already removed from your account and
you have not received them via bank yet, you can ask us to check and if possible we will reverse
to your Earth 2 account so y
ou can withdraw to CC if you choose to




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:13:26 EDT
could someone please post some URLs of properties on the market that you cannot buy? (which
are NOT UAE properties) We just tested and bought a property immediately Additionally
properties that cannot accept bids




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:08:52 EDT
will be coming soon if taken from account




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:08:19 EDT
Mecca will be off limits
Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:07:40 EDT
is that what people are complaining about? We are investigating majority of purchases still




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:06:28 EDT
team is on that




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:06:00 EDT
we will try to prioritise but it depends if that user registers a request when CC withdrawals go live.
We will keep working through the backlog otherwise for bank transfers
​Shane
 03/22/2021 at 18:02:49 EDT
 we are - still debating a time




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:01:33 EDT
ok copied and sent to QA - thanks for the tips. I will ask them to check it up further




Shane
03/22/2021 at 18:00:41 EDT
sorry to hear but cannot control your friend losing their phone .. email from their account email
address and request 2FA reset




Shane
03/22/2021 at 17:59:35 EDT
I don't drink coffee lol




Shane
03/22/2021 at 17:59:25 EDT
that makes no sense .. will be the opposite. If you look at how fast Virtual Land is moving in price I
believe this is only the beginning .. and from what I understand Earth 2 is the clear global leader in
terms of size sold




Shane
03/22/2021 at 17:57:30 EDT
what are the problems? QA have not been able to locate the issue - do you have more details ?




Shane
03/22/2021 at 17:56:45 EDT
Class 3 is by no means crap! I imagine Classes 1-5 (high class) land will stand out in the future!




Shane
03/21/2021 at 18:42:06 EDT
meeting tonight with team on this




Shane
03/21/2021 at 18:41:54 EDT
yes .. never ends seriously .. another crazy week ahead now with so many things to move
forward. Hopefully servers will be stable soon




Shane
03/21/2021 at 18:40:25 EDT
we are not sure - there was a massive spike, perhaps an attack, we are investigating -
marketplace issue also not sure is why I have asked QA to review




Shane
03/21/2021 at 18:38:12 EDT
no - but I have requested QA to review and report urgently




Shane
03/21/2021 at 18:36:50 EDT
we are working on the servers, investigating




Shane
03/20/2021 at 17:57:05 EDT
we didn't cut it before - we cut it some minutes after




Shane
03/20/2021 at 17:56:16 EDT
nobody can currently access the site - so there is nobody buying tiles - everyone is locked out.
Just a moment please




Shane
03/20/2021 at 17:31:00 EDT
no - we cannot reset tiles people bought




Shane
03/20/2021 at 17:30:23 EDT
should be approx 1 hour from now to give people time to reset




Shane
03/20/2021 at 17:07:42 EDT
servers should be up again




Shane
03/20/2021 at 17:07:38 EDT
it was something else guys




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:48:30 EDT
**when is Dubai?**




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:47:38 EDT
13 mins - see you all on the other side!
Shane
​ 03/20/2021 at 16:47:27 EDT
 reply next time I ask on Twitter - or otherwise we will make some way to submit




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:44:58 EDT
automatically if the transaction did not complete - but if after 72 hours you can still see it let us
know and we will manually refund it for you




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:44:08 EDT
Korean internet speed is INSANELY fast .. maybe you have a big advantage from Korea lol




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:42:53 EDT
we refund it within 2 hours - banks can take up to 72 hours their side




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:40:16 EDT
looks like a cool @frommy97 supportive thing. Man I love chatting with you all - really need to go
and monitor now - good luck !




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:39:18 EDT
you think I even have time to buy a car? I cannot even find time to replace my laptop that keeps
randomly crashing during zoom calls lol




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:38:24 EDT
I shall see you all on the other side lol




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:37:59 EDT
anyway, I am back to monitoring with the team - fingers crossed ..




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:37:32 EDT
no .. though we have had many applications from people asking to get paid in tiles lol .. one CTO
from America springs to mind




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:35:49 EDT
ok - I am out guys - before I have a heart attack without first uploading myself into Earth 2




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:34:43 EDT
big news coming
Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:34:37 EDT
well it's not like myself or anyone on the team has had time to test that lol




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:33:49 EDT
I can't say guys




Shane
03/20/2021 at 16:31:24 EDT
you reading my notes? But seriously, maybe UAE is going to be the central hub of Earth 2 for a
while lol




Shane
03/20/2021 at 14:43:08 EDT
really going now - good luck guys




Shane
03/20/2021 at 14:43:02 EDT
it was bought legally




Shane
03/20/2021 at 14:42:19 EDT
sorry I have to get back guys - I am swamped




Shane
03/20/2021 at 14:41:55 EDT
exactly - it's more about giving back long term to you guys




Shane
03/20/2021 at 14:41:27 EDT
big news coming - just too many things to announce - focusing on UAE now




Shane
03/20/2021 at 14:40:23 EDT
700K




Shane
03/20/2021 at 14:39:41 EDT
​if by pumped you mean dying slowly then yes lol .. But yeah .. running on adrenaline




Shane
03/20/2021 at 14:38:57 EDT
yes Sorry guys - so much to do it's crazy. Have to get back to it
Shane
03/20/2021 at 06:23:19 EDT
thank you @null for the nitro boost ! Will have to work out how to use it when I get time! Sorry
would love to stay and chat but so many last minute things for Dubai / UAE .. may not look like it
but it's a lot of additional work o
n top of an already crazily ambitious schedule we're trying to run!




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:36:54 EST
I actually have a thin sponge mattress on the floor right next to my desk, I just crash there when I
get too tired




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:36:14 EST
yes I know, but usually it is shaped the opposite way




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:34:58 EST
https://tenor.com/view/chobits-limbo-mario-good-night-sleep-gif-10757551




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:34:18 EST
I have to finish some meetings guys then need to get some sleep. Thank you for the chat and
hope you all have a great weekend!




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:33:59 EST
will be deleted soon




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:33:29 EST
that is not how I work .. would love to do an interview when things settle down a bit




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:32:15 EST
no was just looking into a property reported




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:24:30 EST
wish I could taste one of your pizzas! And thank you!




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:23:06 EST
yes, that's a good idea. Will follow up




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:22:27 EST
oh yes .. they are dying to play
Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:21:35 EST
yeah true, I should show them. I know they are really proud ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:19:24 EST
yeah that would be cool




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:18:59 EST
I don't mind working hard, and I realise criticism will come from what I am doing .. but it's sad when
your 9 year old daughter walks in and says "I searched Earth 2 on youtube and don't worry Daddy
.. most people don't thin
k Earth 2 is a scam". I now understand what some people must have gone through historically for
trying to think outside the box .. never thought I would hear such a thing from my own daughter.
That part I could use a break
from but it will not deter me.. we have people trying to bring us down when and where they can,
but it won't put us off..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:15:20 EST
we remove them as soon as they are reported to us - will also start banning repeat offenders




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:14:16 EST
hmm .. hard for me to answer that type of question tbh




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:13:51 EST
thank you for acknowledging .. means a lot




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:13:00 EST
yes, that is beautiful
​Shane
 03/12/2021 at 16:12:24 EST
 dead tired right now so hope I am not making a fool of myself




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:12:07 EST
I wish !




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:10:36 EST
what do you mean? I hate racism ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:10:18 EST
if it's not on our platform I don't see why not
Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:09:49 EST
we are working on these fronts also




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:09:18 EST
thank you




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:09:04 EST
well we are not chasing people about it at present ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:07:54 EST
thank you, many people don't realise who hard it is to move as fast as we have been moving and
trying to keep some level of quality .. and there are things in the pipeline you guys don't know
about yet




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:07:14 EST
we are receiving legal advice on how to handle this right now




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:06:51 EST
yes that is why we want to work with talented agencies in this area




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:06:05 EST
debit also - actually debit should work better




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:05:51 EST
no, I have not slept yesterday and all night lol




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:05:21 EST
does Earth 2 count ?




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:04:18 EST
you need to remember we are barely promoting this right now




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:04:05 EST
there are numerous things in the pipeline




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:03:42 EST
CC payouts are coming, will make massive improvements after we clear the backlog




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:02:57 EST
will check it in a moment




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:02:39 EST
you are making me think I am ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:02:22 EST
no sorry




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:02:13 EST

we are working on solutions but nothing in development yet




Shane
​ 03/12/2021 at 16:01:42 EST
 we are ready as we can be .. hope it won't be too bad




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:00:43 EST
how do you know that phrase? I usually say it as a joke when I meet with inner circle .. Living the
dream and slowly dying lol




Shane
03/12/2021 at 16:00:04 EST
haha .. football that is




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:59:50 EST
really ?




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:59:29 EST
yeah that was a really awesome meeting




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:59:07 EST
yes from me, I played when I was younger .. and soccer, tennis etc.. but Commodore 64,
Ninetendo and SNES set me on a different path lol




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:57:33 EST
we are working on that solution for you to be able to do that




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:57:11 EST
ok




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:56:54 EST
thank you




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:56:34 EST
I would think less LOL




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:56:19 EST
not right now, but the first part will be ready fairly soon .. EPL + Essence once all signed off.




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:55:36 EST
love the way you think




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:55:23 EST
now that is a big question .. WG is the mastermind there and has some incredible plans




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:54:12 EST
I cannot, but I can say it's very interesting and we have quite a few plans around it




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:53:40 EST
we are working on things here but extremely busy on other tasks right now




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:53:15 EST
I can enjoy most any type of sport .. where do I start .. but do I have time to watch sport ? Not
these days .. my son plays Rugby but I have not been able to watch him play yet this year I loved
watching drone fights when I
was last in South Korea .. I think that will be a thing. I want to allow sports / games like this on e2
at some stage




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:51:14 EST
every tile in the world is unique .. so ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:50:58 EST
if we do it will be very balanced and Wolfgang will have a perfect plan for it




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:50:27 EST
hi @butt - I answered that above somewhere




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:49:54 EST
sounds awesome




Shane
​ 03/12/2021 at 15:49:30 EST
 Zendesk has a massive amount of work put into it. I cannot comment about agreements with other
 companies, we sign NDAs all the time and we are approached by companies from all over the
 world. We will announce som
 ething official when / if we work out an agreement to work together (whoever that may be)




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:46:52 EST
yes




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:46:10 EST
yes I realise that, but sorry, we are not releasing details on that just yet. It's really cool though ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:45:45 EST
there will be a job application email soon




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:45:30 EST
of course




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:45:15 EST
yes I agree! Earth 2 can and will become so many things .. sometimes you just need to move first
and we had enough tech to do that. We are working hard to keep that momentum and glad to
have everyone on this journey
.. thank you




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:44:14 EST
yes, we will plan one. But we want to make sure improvements have been made or almost made
when we do that. We are all working incredible hours to keep things moving forward .. it's hard just
to set a meeting time due
to hectic schedules right now let alone a whole dev stream




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:42:58 EST
it should be
Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:42:46 EST
well .. there is a stub .. that's all I can say




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:42:10 EST
there will always be some sites, our legal team handle that


Shane class 1 will always have the upper hand, then class2, class3 etc - well when I say upper
hand, I mean some higher gain over the others as they do now, but does not mean anything major
! It will all come out .. I am just saying there is difference and the difference will always mean
Class1




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:40:37 EST
well when I say upper hand, I mean some higher gain over the others as they do now, but does
not mean anything major ! It will all come out .. I am just saying there is difference and the
difference will always mean Class1
are a bit better etc.. and they are also rarer




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:37:45 EST
at this point in time the answer is no, not to stay alive




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:37:04 EST
class 1 will always have the upper hand, then class2, class3 etc - well when I say upper hand, I
mean some higher gain over the others as they do now, but does not mean anything major ! It will
all come out .. I am just sayi
ng there is difference and the difference will always mean Class1 are a bit better etc..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:36:35 EST
not the ones we have planned for now




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:35:25 EST
thank you. It might receive a massive revamp .. shoon ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:34:48 EST
@null can lol




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:34:18 EST
no - and is there an assumption the eggs are on the map ?




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:33:23 EST
now I'm curious lol




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:32:46 EST
yes, all times can be built on
​Shane
 03/12/2021 at 15:32:26 EST
 that actually came up the other day ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:32:08 EST
I certainly hope so .. or ones created in e2




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:31:53 EST
too early to answer this precisely




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:31:30 EST
a long, long time ago .. I was busy building a social media app and working on this part time




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:30:34 EST
I cannot say right now




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:30:03 EST
I get that, and it's in the list .. but it also makes the art more valuable if it's harder to complete ?




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:28:05 EST
not now sorry, we are just focused on payouts, Dubai and phase 2




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:27:37 EST
I cannot say because if I say and it doesn't work for you then that makes it my fault ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:26:42 EST
we have not started yet. I have a meeting over the weekend to review 5 options with that team




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:26:09 EST
will be on there soon




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:25:52 EST
yes, I definitely want this and have had lengthy discussions with Nathaniel about it
Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:25:07 EST
I have replied above. We have updates that we'd like to make there also - but there are other
things with higher priority




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:23:38 EST
it will be based on the current one but there will be many updates .. it will probably end up looking
different with new screens etc




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:23:04 EST
I cannot wait also




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:22:36 EST
cannot disclose sorry .. but minimal. I think we might hold a world record for ROAS on one ad .. I
googled and could not find anything near it and our FB guy said it's unheard of




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:21:40 EST
ok




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:21:10 EST
yeah we will have many types of leaderboards in the future




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:20:45 EST
cool .. lego man shape




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:20:29 EST
they are 100% coming. This is all going on in the background




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:20:04 EST
haha that would be cool




Shane
​ 03/12/2021 at 15:19:24 EST
 mentioned above




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:19:12 EST
will probably have the chance to remake them inside Earth 2 anywhere even if they are
Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:18:49 EST
yeah, I guess this has never happened before so will review these figures




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:18:03 EST
nice! There will be an email to send applications to for sure! Once things settle down we would
love to have interns on the team




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:17:31 EST
the hunt is not live yet




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:16:54 EST
yes I do




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:16:35 EST
not at all .. we are spending minimal at best




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:15:55 EST
thanks - I love N64




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:14:53 EST
those have been our biggest bottlenecks




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:14:44 EST
once we have payouts and support under control and a few other things so that the next 300K
users have a better experience in those areas




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:13:05 EST
ok will note now to add pagination




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:12:48 EST
yes, working on that - it will be a toggle on Settings. Our main web team has been working crazily
to prepare CC payouts .. another thing that doesn't make sense to those bagging us saying we
make the payout process rea
lly difficult on purpose .. I mean we are spending all this time to try and make it easier so wonder if
they will just find something else to bag us about when CC payouts are ready




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:11:17 EST
yeah it is in the pipeline. We have such a long list of critical things we need to resolve, but this is
definitely something we are aware of and will try to add a button to view all in a central place
easily. For now may I suggest filt
ering bids on your Transaction history ?




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:08:52 EST
isn't a ponzi scheme when you don't make profit ? I mean .. anyone with half a brain can see we
make incredible profit ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:07:57 EST
maybe, otherwise users can just sit there and wait for minutes then purchase .. it's first in best
dressed - the price should not rise that fast




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:07:13 EST
this is only the beginning




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:06:59 EST
will they ever be ready? We will definitely be beefing up before hand




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:06:00 EST
timer is coming shoon




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:05:35 EST
can't wait to see it!




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:05:20 EST
yes I am so excited about it .. I want to build tech that allows other people to be innovative on it as
well. It was always part of my plans but to see how amazingly innovative people have been during
phase 1 just drives that d
esire !
​Shane
 03/12/2021 at 15:04:05 EST
 We are not 100% sure yet, but it will be very low as usual




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:03:15 EST
first in best dressed .. down to the millisecond ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:02:42 EST
I want this during Phase 2. I have so many internal projects I want in motion it's insane ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:02:08 EST
yeah we are considering this




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:01:40 EST
actually I probably should give them a heads up. I missed a meeting with them the other day, I
forgot ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:01:01 EST
I am not sure, have not tried it




Shane
03/12/2021 at 15:00:37 EST
we are monitoring. If there are edge cases we will roll out something right before Dubai goes live
so there will not be any auto-buy bots




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:59:22 EST
I mean it's kind of growing on people, right ?




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:57:38 EST
yes we might enable that for Dubai - it is ready if we need it but currently our systems are already
blocking well enough




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:57:03 EST
thank you




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:56:35 EST
We are handling bots. We already snuck out updates that are blocking auto-buy bots. Other
details will be released in time but you now have a date, we will work by that !




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:46:22 EST
yes - will be close though . We need to find some hours through the week to wipe these




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:45:44 EST
we are talking about this for sure




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:45:08 EST
yes, all illegally purchased tiles will be




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:44:44 EST
nooooo !




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:44:21 EST
in your head right now




Shane
03/12/2021 at 14:43:34 EST
no sooner than 30 seconds after posting that announcement, people are like 'When is Iran? When
is Israel? LOL ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:29:27 EST
has not started yet




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:29:17 EST
guys - I have to get back to this announcement or I will be in trouble for missing the 7 days! But
you will all finally have a date for Dubai at least and it will no longer only be 'shoon'




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:28:20 EST
hey Willy
​Shane
 03/12/2021 at 13:27:58 EST
 that just happened .. but they are amazing guys!




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:27:36 EST
maybe one day, if it makes sense




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:27:16 EST
yes




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:27:07 EST
I am not at anyone's mercy. If something doesn't make sense for Earth 2 then I won't agree to it ..
at nobody's mercy




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:25:11 EST
we have an extremely talented team working on every aspect .. just because we don't make public
statements does not mean we don't know or are not focusing on something. Many things in the
pipeline my friend ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:24:01 EST
even if I wanted to there were NDAs .. learning a lot in any case, spent hours with them
Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:22:21 EST
yes I agree! I mean Dubai is what people have screamed for, but the things to come ppl ..




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:21:46 EST
will be doing better when I get back to it




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:21:26 EST
team is on it




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:21:12 EST
well Earth 2 is just my top priority .. for months now. It's all coming together so well!




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:19:44 EST
I am supposed to sleep but I would love to drop in and chat a little while if possible




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:18:46 EST
yeah I try to post there when I can. Worked 24 hr shift yesterday so still doing long hours, but
trying to sleep a little more in between!




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:17:51 EST
the last three meetings I had were just awesome .. so feeling pumped




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:16:54 EST
yes I know! I have had meetings the past 8 hours non-stop and just completed final one to get the
announcement out - am aware lol




Shane
03/12/2021 at 13:15:05 EST
What's up with the tags? Don't you know if you call my name 3 times I will appear?




Shane
03/07/2021 at 12:25:32 EST
seems it is an issue with AWS - I cannot even load https://status.aws.amazon.com/ some regions
are not affected




Shane
03/07/2021 at 12:04:52 EST
we are working on it - https://app.earth2.io/ works
Shane
03/04/2021 at 09:41:05 EST
lol - I have to get back to work guys, so much to do and really under the weather today




Shane
03/04/2021 at 09:40:28 EST
Shane looking at chat right now thinking .. what have I done ..




Shane
03/03/2021 at 12:36:33 EST
just dropped to say that, back to work for me




Shane
​ 03/03/2021 at 12:36:12 EST
 we are still averaging 1 visa transaction every few seconds




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:31:02 EST
hope you all have a great day and thanks again for the support




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:30:45 EST
ok I have to go guys, I was supposed to sleep over an hour ago and have a busy day ahead (
7:30am now). I noticed Jazzy and Mike seem to have disappeared ..




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:29:17 EST
WG wants that for sure




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:29:07 EST
was talking with Wolfgang about that 2 days ago




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:28:19 EST
YES! That was the whole point I launched in 2020 .. I just didn't expect it would catch on this fast




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:27:47 EST
but then it may take away from the video experience .. I know people don't read often but we may
need to do two videos or maybe discuss on a stream




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:26:55 EST
they will still be 10x10 and we are not sure if they may increase in Phase 3, but they will be 10x10
Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:26:19 EST
he is fine. I had a meeting with him and Ferran for over 1 hour earlier today .. great meeting !




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:24:37 EST
hey




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:23:46 EST
best to try via the ads on the platform - teams will review those. Or send an email to
support@earth2.io and title it "Business Plan" .. we get quite a lot of those and I like to see them
when I have a chance




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:22:58 EST
yes .. Essence with the ability to begin claiming EPLs




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:21:49 EST
too many for me to keep across, we are building out fast. Not sure, that is devops handling




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:20:49 EST
we didn't say that




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:20:19 EST
exactly - but I rarely have time to drive these days .. at least no where fun




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:19:47 EST
yes, coming soon




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:19:38 EST
that would be awesome ! I certainly think there should be




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:19:06 EST
yes they may be larger but we state 10x10 to cover all possibilities




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:16:26 EST
I would love to be on those tracks! I like Porsches (have owned 2 for years) - I enjoy driving when I
have the time




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:15:36 EST
when we are ready .. we can turn that on any time but we're stuck in a position where we want to
show our current users we are making progress but also don't want to receive hundreds of
thousands of new users until we
have things in place




Shane
​ 03/02/2021 at 16:14:44 EST
 yes, Wolfgang has covered MANY angles




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:14:03 EST
we are working on a toggle for users to turn that off




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:13:32 EST
YES! I want commerce on Earth 2 for sure




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:12:46 EST
I am talking to support about different ways to handle these cases .. you might be able to keep the
property if the original seller agrees to the price you paid (if it was a scam). Some users actually
sell for $0.01 in give aways
or (illegally) off platform




Shane

03/02/2021 at 16:11:39 EST
please PM me your account email




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:11:17 EST
Wow !! That's awesome ! We hope to give users the opportunity to run start ups on Earth 2 at
some point in the future too. But would love to hear how your startup progresses and the fact that
it was possible from Earth 2 is
just AMAZING ! Love it !!




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:10:10 EST
thank you - I am so busy I even missed that ..




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:09:10 EST
within for sure




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:08:58 EST
thank you




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:08:49 EST
I have always wanted this to be a thing .. people don't yet understand how big we want this to be ..




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:07:44 EST
I know, but remember how you accused us otherwise in here for weeks? lol




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:07:14 EST
of course




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:06:58 EST
Dillon and I were talking about it last night - the whole team is just swamped .. it's coming




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:06:27 EST
I love NFTs ...




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:06:18 EST
not 100% but should be 1-3 days until sent I think (but I am not working in the payments section so
not 100% sure on their current flow / backlog)




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:05:39 EST
yes, I remember how much you didn't believe us at first and all the time invested on trying to solve
/ work out your problem for you (even though it was your side in the end!). In any case, I have
messaged the payments tea
m to check up on the second payment, hopefully won't be too far away for you




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:02:21 EST
that was amazing .. we were blown away




Shane
03/02/2021 at 16:01:26 EST
no that should be fine. In fact you can use multiple cards on accounts so long as they are the
same / similar name (if they are a different name we will probably run more checks if you ask for a
withdrawal)




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:58:58 EST
I am hoping we have CC payouts in the next 5-6 weeks if all goes smoothly




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:57:58 EST
ok, we will work it out. We have the top account manager for PayPal in Australia assigned to us
and I have direct lines to most C-level PayPal employees in Australia (including the mobile
number of the Australian MD). If ou
r team cannot get clearance they will ask me and I will follow it up
​Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:55:40 EST
you need a hammer




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:55:04 EST
we are not sure, if we find a way to do it without affecting prices paid and we have time it would be
cool to change




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:54:25 EST
yes




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:53:29 EST
it should be ok - not quite the same as using 3 different PayPal wallets ..




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:52:46 EST
and this.. I mean you made mistakes when giving us your details which delayed things and you
already know your account has now had the withdrawal amount deducted which means your
payout is close .. but you come o
n and make these statements




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:50:04 EST
If you search "From:micksales" I think you were more or less trying to take down E2 and discredit
it as much as possible .. anyway, I am not going to give you a date aside from the fact you're in
line - you emailed us over 15
times with many accusations and then we find you have 3 paypal accounts and you're withdrawal
request is being reviewed. I cannot say too much more than that right now




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:46:46 EST
should be ok but might be flagged




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:45:11 EST
yes he has - really outstanding job. I will hopefully be reviewing in the next 24 hours




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:43:56 EST
no problem. These are just two cases that I have noticed just now before sleeping. I imagine most
others would have similar backgrounds but we don't have time to check and publicise them all ..
thanks for sticking up for us
in our absence because most cases have untold stories like these two




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:42:04 EST
yeah that was incredible. .. such a wonderful community




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:40:27 EST
yes, and it's sad to see our staff abused and our brand dragged through the mud by people we
have actually helped make a dollar ..




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:38:23 EST
we are working on it amongst many other things




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:37:55 EST
you emailed us Jan 17 - sent follow up emails asking why it's taking so long. We got to you and
were ready to process but you didn't provide the correct SWIFT code (actually you didn't provide
any SWIFT code). We got bac
k to you a couple weeks ago after catching up with your follow up email (after sending the correct
details). Your account had the withdrawal deducted yesterday which means it's going to go out to
you soon. But you're still in
here saying you've been waiting for weeks yet don't mention the mistakes you made or the back
and forth from us. I understand there are delays, but this happens all the time .. people come on
and complain about it taking
so long yet do not state the mistakes they have made or the progress our side. You mentioned
above that slow withdrawals will turn new users away .. if you're that concerned about new users
being turned away why come
on and publicly complain without stating facts? Anyway, I imagine you will receive notification of
your withdrawal soon and I really hope you take the time to visit places you've complained about
us and notify people of the tr
uth and the fact you received your withdrawal.




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:30:23 EST
can see over 15 emails from you making demands and accusations. Then your account was found
to have used multiple different PayPal accounts to buy tiles (which is a flag for us). That's why it
takes longer




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:25:49 EST
yes am checking




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:23:40 EST
what is your Earth 2 profile URL ?




Shane
03/02/2021 at 15:23:26 EST
what is your Earth 2 profile URL ?




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:56:31 EST
ok I need to get back to work. Has been a pleasure and hope you all have a wonderful day
wherever you may be (one day we'll see each other in Earth 2 and know where the other is!)
​Shane
 03/01/2021 at 09:54:20 EST
 yes, and we are still catching scammers daily .. not saying they are but there is always a reason




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:52:31 EST
exactly ..
Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:51:48 EST
I saw one of your videos the other day and must say it was interesting




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:50:51 EST
I am ok with it, just sucks when your kids read that stuff.. anyway I guess it just comes with the title
but sucks when it's not true




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:49:47 EST
ahh ok




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:49:13 EST
exactly .. and that stuff hangs on the internet. I am a father of 3 (don't want my kids seeing that)
and I have colleagues, business partners, friends, family .. I would never scam anyone so it's really
disappointing to read those
comments and reviews to be honest ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:47:53 EST
we would love to but I cannot say for sure how this will work




Shane

03/01/2021 at 09:47:03 EST
not getting you wrong at all, I just wondered where it was so I could check the wording so I thought
you may have read it recently and could show me




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:46:17 EST
yes, please do this if you have an ounce of decency ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:45:32 EST
yes! I would love to see their faces though in the long run ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:44:35 EST
no .. this is more if someone finds loot or something while browsing or walking on your property
you might receive part of the value of whatever it is




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:43:33 EST
EXACTLY .. makes you wonder ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:41:37 EST
we are working to roll out as fast as possible but could you please show me where all of that was
promised for Q1 ( not saying it wasn't I just want to know where exactly and what the wording
was)




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:39:49 EST
yes, most people do get this but some don't .. unfortunately those that don't are very loud .. but you
may notice less people complaining as more are paid out I guess




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:38:11 EST
yes, Wolfgang is working on such things and it's looking really good




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:37:40 EST
sorry I don't get this question ?




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:31:24 EST
we are working on ways for users to be more aware of the price they are setting. Those are
already live on the platform




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:30:15 EST
we are still working on plans




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:29:58 EST
yes we would hope for that




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:29:08 EST
and this is only the beginning ..
​Shane
 03/01/2021 at 09:28:33 EST
 we can change that any time .. we're just getting things in place first .. our ad spend is nothing still..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:26:42 EST
bit of both




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:26:24 EST
I have loved all games since a kid .. picking a favourite would be difficult .. fond memories of a
younger time .. I loved Ultima IV on SEGA and I am proud to say I completed Abe's Oddysee on
PS1 without any cheats. Also c
ould have gone pro with Starcraft.. I love many games but I don't get a chance to play a lot these
days, just focusing on making quite possibly the biggest game ever lol




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:23:35 EST
I would love that .. Wolfgang and I have the same dream here




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:23:05 EST
not worried, I just take responsibility very seriously and it's impossible to wind down until I kick
goals




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:20:50 EST
yeah we have been approached .. but no plans yet




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:20:12 EST
I have no idea .. but I do love shopping at Coles




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:19:34 EST
yes I did .. my son actually told me about it then I saw it at the end of this video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=UMae7ctlwBA&ab_channel=EARTH2GUIDE




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:18:30 EST
thank you .. really appreciate that @sarge_nl




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:18:08 EST
we have a number of plans in progress .. tiles are only the beginning ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:17:29 EST
lol I mean I am worried about one day at a time these days




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:15:15 EST
if that was the case it will auto refund. We have build systems in place that auto refund Pre-Auth
payments every 2 hours with our payment solution now. If it takes longer it's due to your bank (like
a pre-auth on a hotel), but
it will just disappear from your bank records. If it takes longer than 72 hours please contact us but
can almost guarantee that it will be ok. From over 80,000 transactions on our own payment
solution we have only had 12 tra
nsactions with a real issue so far




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:12:51 EST
ok PaySafe and Bankcontact .. have noted those




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:11:33 EST
it is coming, but we are creating an entire economy hear - we don't want to release something that
will be abused and break quickly. There is serious time and effort going into making sure this is
done correctly and I 100% h
ave faith in WG getting it as right as it possibly can be before roll out




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:10:04 EST
we are aware of this and we're trying to add more options in parallel with working on many other
things. What options would you suggest?




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:09:19 EST
hey




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:09:11 EST
trustpilot .. seems to be a go to for those bagging us .. I only found out a few days ago




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:08:04 EST
yeah, working on something there




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:07:27 EST
exactly .. and there are actually some people going out of their way to damage us with insanely
wrong accusations. Lawyers are chasing them down .. I don't mind people being sceptical or
debating but to outright lie just to
try and bring down a small startup that is trying to make a difference in the world .. I am sorry but
our team work too hard to cop that




Shane
​ 03/01/2021 at 09:04:24 EST
 I really can't say .. if I do then it will come back to me. Sounds like you are doing it for a good
 reason but think about it - does it work ?




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:03:12 EST
yeah it's coming




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:02:51 EST
yes, we really should start asking those who are paid out to actually go and leave reviews there ..
there would be 1000s .. plus many users go and leave a review there, then get paid out .. and just
leave their review up. Lov
ely way for them to thank us ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 09:00:41 EST
yes sorry, we know there should be an auto response for that and it's coming .. it would 100% be
there though if you sent to the correct address and didn't receive a notification from your email
provider otherwise
Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:59:53 EST
well .. I see this argument coming up a lot. I don't remember us advertising as a bank or a wallet ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:58:58 EST
he is VERY busy .. he does not have an easy task and he takes his work very seriously .. I had an
hour call with him earlier today - he is well but focused




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:58:15 EST
I love you guys .. wish I could come on more often




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:57:45 EST
I see this as a platform for many things, yes, it's a game, but we are also building a platform for the
future - platforms include many things




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:56:43 EST
if it's a higher amount they might need to by law .. AML .. KYC




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:56:11 EST
it's like a soap opera sometimes ! Probably highly entertaining for most but I obviously have a long
term plan to prove the haters wrong




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:54:03 EST
and here is one already .. right after I wrote the comment .. we launched less than 4 months ago, 4
people asked for withdrawals in the first month and all were paid




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:51:59 EST
exactly !




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:51:21 EST
not saying he did .. but people have funny ways of twisting stories .. like those who waited 4
months for their withdrawal and who bought land in Oct last year .. There was also one guy
accusing us of everything under the s
un online, making videos and bringing the whole concept down .. we found him on Earth and found
he has spent hundreds of dollars AFTER those comments, trading and all .. Some people just
want the drama I think




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:49:33 EST
NO lol .. we will give you and everyone else a fair warning !




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:48:44 EST
maybe we go binary .. 1 and 0




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:48:11 EST
well .. as a teenager I found out I was more or less allergic to that stuff .. maybe Earth 2 is my
subliminal escape ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:47:18 EST
no need to learn just yet, wait until we make announcements




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:46:56 EST
scripts finding scammers to locate and clear accounts for withdrawals faster .. CC payout system
Phase 2 Essence + EPL + web domain Updates to terrain system for new footage in next video
systems to prevent scammer
s from wanting to be part of Earth 2 - we don't want them anywhere near us and we're working on
plans to deter them permanently.. I mean I am yet aware of one scammer being paid out, they will
not win .. we are working
on many other tasks on top of this but those are a few that come directly into mind. Talking to
some amazing people around the world also but I can't say much under NDA




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:43:03 EST
yea I had this idea a long time ago and was working on the concept.. then we went viral and
everything else fell off the truck ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:42:29 EST
no, there would be 3 reasons 1 - they had a scammed property and we returned their property to
them because they asked for it back due to a confirmed scam 2 - they have asked for a withdrawal
and TW will confirm once
​funds are on the way 3 - they have done something dodgy with their payments to us




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:40:38 EST
yes, they are doing quite well but still improving




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:39:50 EST
it will come once we have other more critical things resolved




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:39:00 EST
right now I am more concerned about tomorrow!




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:38:08 EST
yes, I love AR
Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:37:57 EST
we know




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:37:44 EST
around the same time




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:37:04 EST
yes we are yet to do this with anyone, but realise it could work




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:36:43 EST
yes .. I am missing meetings because of this stuff .. making sure things are done. I need to jump
back into planning more




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:35:33 EST
I can't say but we are processing a LOT daily ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:35:02 EST
inbox was flooded .. amazing response ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:34:37 EST
I can't say but shooo... lol




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:33:58 EST
well I like the forest because I grew up in Australia with the beach, sun, tropical biome etc. . so I
like something a bit different - but there will be some really cool ones coming over time




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:32:37 EST
there is over 300K now, we are only spending minimal on advertising now but planning for bigger
campaigns once we have things under control. Most growth now is just organic




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:31:14 EST
I want to handle the ones we have so far first lol




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:30:52 EST
well, I want to make an e2 bank, so I am probably the wrong person to ask lol




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:30:11 EST
well I could, but I can't right now .. let's just say it's pretty cool and will work retrospectively




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:29:20 EST
not set




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:28:56 EST
20-30, not sure exact




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:28:41 EST
we're working on something, not sure we will share images first




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:28:04 EST
we are working on options .. but right now there is TransferWise direct to us, many more users are
using this service now
​Shane
 03/01/2021 at 08:27:04 EST
 ok will try




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:26:59 EST
ok I will try




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:26:33 EST
I mean we have made some big progress in this area, we pretty much have contracts signed off ..
if it works it would mean we could pay people out in hours (once their account is cleared!)




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:25:38 EST
we are working on updates, yes, these things don't happen over night but we do have some
promising news




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:24:38 EST
haha .. that has not happened for months now ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:24:18 EST
definitely on the drawing board but too early to say anything for sure




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:21:43 EST
brb - I have to go and say gn to my wife
Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:21:33 EST
279887 logins over the past 7 days




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:20:23 EST
yeah I am not sure, maybe Mapbox satellite thing but they do have amazing coverage but I am not
sure




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:19:22 EST
high level info is coming in the next announcement, but we have some pretty cool plans moving
forward




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:18:31 EST
not at all .. we have hundreds of thousands of users and maybe 0.5% complain openly .. most
people are on board with us and what we are doing, we're working hard to make this work long
term




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:17:11 EST
I love them




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:17:02 EST
yes




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:16:56 EST
I am not sure about new biomes but we are working on a few things - will be a good video I am
sure




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:15:45 EST
exactly - there has not been any official announcement about this




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:15:11 EST
nothing is live yet




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:13:47 EST
it's coming




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:13:29 EST
we actually have quite a few in the pipeline but they all rely on one another .. so I would think that
Essence + EPL would be the next big thing released .. but we're also working on a release for our
new web domain, ads, Ea
ster Eggs etc etc




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:12:10 EST
I really cannot say .. but we have not made an official announcement about this so nothing is set in
stone




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:10:55 EST
thank you, the struggle is real
​Shane
 03/01/2021 at 08:10:37 EST
 we had a video created and ready to release, but we have decided to redo a different video from
 inside our terrain system .. it will be a few weeks away but will better display what we think people
 want to see more of




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:09:36 EST
well it's not really a release when people have to go digging around in the code to find it ..




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:09:10 EST
I tend to release some thoughts on Twitter, that is why I set it up, for people who want some bits
and pieces in between and to make sure we are still around lol




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:08:06 EST
there is an announcement coming, we are just wrapping up parts of that announcement while
working on other things




Shane
03/01/2021 at 08:07:05 EST
I am also 'common folk' .. I have just been working around the clock with the team to make things
happen. Sorry I have not dropped in as often as I would have liked to these days




Shane
02/27/2021 at 03:35:01 EST
I have to get back to work guys .. in the middle of submitting a lot of documentation somewhere




Shane
02/27/2021 at 03:34:27 EST
please email to support, they will document and pass to the dev team




Shane
02/27/2021 at 03:32:58 EST
have frozen team will check in more later, most do look suspicious but not sure on one of them




Shane
02/27/2021 at 03:32:23 EST
I cannot stop and fix everything sorry guys - I have so much work on my table. I need to steer the
whole e2 ship in the right direction for everyone




Shane
02/27/2021 at 03:31:47 EST
is yours again - please be careful before accepting bids. We are still working to fight vs these
scammers




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:23:02 EST
cool - PM me your resume




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:20:23 EST
love you too - but please stop pushing agendas for other people. We have a tough enough job as
it is than to have people expecting special treatment and jumping queues. Thank you for everyone
who is waiting patiently ..




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:18:32 EST
we have work to do .. if they stop here all the time and answer everyone how can they work?
Thomas is a bit different he just has PC issues but the rest of the team need to focus on our tasks




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:17:50 EST
answered above, no bots for auto purchasing




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:17:11 EST
he is busy and his PC died .. we're buying him a new one




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:16:27 EST
why wouldn't he be ?




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:15:38 EST
the blue dots are gone ... for now .. someone accidentally opened a filter they were not supposed
to and I had them close it off as soon as I heard




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:14:42 EST
if they are stolen and you can prove that you will get them back it might just take a while. We are
returning properties every day




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:14:15 EST
not if they auto-buy
Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:14:05 EST
some people just love the drama .. I have to get back to work guys.
​Shane
 02/24/2021 at 02:13:17 EST
 wow .. what are you fishing for ?




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:12:11 EST
I know we processed over $200K in payouts yesterday. Most people are just waiting patiently but
then some expect special treatment. I am the first to put my hand up and apologise it's taking a
while but at the end of the da
y we want to root out all scammers on the system and we are trying to catch up on hyper-growth -
we don't want scammers on Earth 2 long term so it's better to root them out now and add systems
to prevent it before we pu
sh any major marketing again. I have interview requests piled up that we are putting off until we
get things more set in place




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:09:15 EST
we are working through such things. People don't understand there are rules around this type of
thing and we need to adhere to those rules




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:08:28 EST
yeah I am still not sure what happened there, I have not had time to look into it - too many things
to do




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:07:57 EST
exactly




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:07:18 EST
who are you? And why should he be before other users who are waiting patiently ?




Shane

02/24/2021 at 02:06:19 EST
if it's owed to him and it's clean after his account is reviewed then not at all




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:04:58 EST
I have not heard about this - it's hard enough keeping up with my daily tasks let alone check
what's going on in the community. I just drop in from time to time. If E2THEBOSS has made a
withdrawal request it will be process
ed in line with everyone elses




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:03:36 EST
haha I have not slept yet - need to sleep soon as I have a whole night of work ahead




Shane
02/24/2021 at 02:01:54 EST
so we launched in Nov, 2020. Most users signed up late December and through January - we're
now in Feb - but it took us 5 months to implement 2FA? Does it make you happy to just make
things up? So much of this misi
nformation floating around that damages our business when we're literally working around the
clock to create something amazing for everyone .. anyway




Shane
02/23/2021 at 21:28:35 EST
we changed that because people were scamming others changing the price last minute before
sales. We will come back to this to improve it but we have so many things to work on it's just set to
a lower priority right now




Shane
02/23/2021 at 21:25:03 EST
we are working on that also




Shane
02/23/2021 at 21:24:46 EST
there are about 20 crucial things going on at any given time lol .. trying to keep up with them all




Shane
02/23/2021 at 21:24:14 EST
yeah I know, we also need to build API to allow stats to be pulled, it's a fine balance




Shane
02/23/2021 at 21:23:46 EST
sorry guys, I just have meeting after meeting and so much on my plate right now. Will drop it to
chat again once I have some things finalised




Shane
02/23/2021 at 21:22:48 EST
we have already taken many steps to prevent bots and are working on more as we speak




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:41:17 EST
I know .. I have not had 1 day off since Nov 3 ..




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:40:43 EST
hope you all enjoy the rest of your weekend




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:40:31 EST
I have to get back to work guys. Need to follow up some things urgently




Shane
​ 02/21/2021 at 05:39:05 EST
 yes please!
Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:38:51 EST
Oct actually .. going to get it trimmed though my wife is not so happy lol




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:38:20 EST
show him this screenshot (of my text)




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:38:14 EST
that would be great! Please contact Thomas




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:37:06 EST
we planned to do that in December then went viral ..




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:36:53 EST
yes it's just part of the tests




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:36:38 EST
there will always be haters .. cannot escape them I think. And we know for a fact that users out
there bagging us are actively trading on the platform ..




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:35:40 EST
we are working on it




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:35:17 EST
I think there are quite a few nicknames .. Shoon ? lol .. all good




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:34:39 EST
TransferWise will get to you faster if you have a TW account




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:34:10 EST
I certainly hope so




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:33:45 EST
yeah that does sound cool. I want to allow people freedom in this area if possible




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:33:08 EST
ok will make a note, I think we already have it in the pipeline
Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:32:39 EST
yes unfortunately people want to make a quick dollar. They have used our platform, which didn't
exist 3 months ago, made some money due to our success and now turning on us because we
can't pay them quickly enough
due to the massive growth .. not much we can do apart from trying to improve the system and
checks. There are users who scammed other users and we need to make sure we're not paying
those scammers .. I am sure n
obody wants those scammers to get away with it .. so unfortunately it slows things down and that's
ON TOP of the whole hypergrowth thing ..




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:28:59 EST
we did that but they keep finding ways around it - we will continue to monitor




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:28:34 EST
we are focusing on our own payment system for now as we have much better control over it and
we are working on ways we might be able to streamline payments back to users who pay using
our system




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:27:54 EST
anyway, I need to go back to monitor some things now it's deployed, will make an official
announcement soon




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:27:31 EST
but shows the direction we are heading in that area




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:27:12 EST
is just a testing phase thing




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:25:27 EST
it's a first step, we're just testing some things
​Shane
 02/21/2021 at 05:25:03 EST
 oh yeah, I have to fix that ..




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:23:39 EST
of course, what did you expect ? lol




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:22:53 EST
oh really? :)))
Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:22:42 EST
nothing I can say - but obviously brilliant receiving advice from people like these ..




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:22:02 EST
haha .. well ..




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:21:50 EST
yeah I am about to announce something on that




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:19:19 EST
one down and one to go




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:18:37 EST
theshaneisaac I think




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:17:37 EST
not really .. or just don't follow makes no difference to me




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:16:38 EST
follow my twitter for some in between stuff .. it's hard to keep making official announcements all
the time until something is 100% confirmed or completed.




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:12:38 EST
wow that's crazy!




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:11:04 EST
I could not even find him on the chat server after that .. any idea where he went ?




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:09:51 EST
oh cool! I kind of live in my own Earth 2 bubble so no idea what is going on in the real world most
of the time




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:09:08 EST
I have no idea - what happened ?




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:08:47 EST
not confirmed yet. We are waiting to sign off on some foundations internally that will probably take
the week and then plan a stream after that. We 'may' have an earlier stream to talk about the
video and some other things b
ut would like to finalise foundations first for core parts of Phase 2




Shane
02/21/2021 at 05:07:03 EST
we are around, there is just so much to be done it's hard to drop in as often




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:55:43 EST
SOOON




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:55:41 EST
you will see a new update coming soon ..




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:55:25 EST
ok I need to get back to work guys




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:55:00 EST
not sure, as many as we need.
​Shane
 02/17/2021 at 17:54:18 EST
 cannot say yet




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:53:24 EST
will be a jobs page on our website over coming weeks I think




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:53:07 EST
yes I do. Though I have not had much time to work on it these days ..




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:52:45 EST
well..




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:51:26 EST
yes over time




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:49:47 EST
why isn't your name orange ?
Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:49:32 EST
yes that is one. We have definitely noticed some (and I say some) who are more noisy are trying
to push through quickly because they did something wrong




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:47:57 EST
definitely .. for various reasons. We have already caught some we just cannot make it public




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:47:00 EST
that would take a long time to answer, I am involved in at least 10 internal projects right now .. and
it is hell




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:46:12 EST
if you consider we have almost 300,000 users .. the people complaining are minimal ..




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:45:37 EST
not really, but don't want to miss chances like Keemstar too and we realise we need to keep
moving.




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:44:38 EST
not set yet, possible end of next week but not confirmed




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:44:00 EST
if it comes then it comes, but we are definitely trying to get things in place before the next blow up.
That reply from Keemstar would have been pretty cool .. but we plan to start ramping up marketing
again once we have mo
re stability in a few areas. We are stuck in a sense where we need to keep moving for all those
who are supporting us but we also need to be more prepared for the next push so it's kind of a bit
of both right now




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:40:21 EST
my kids want pets ... so ....




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:37:15 EST
yes we definitely hope to do this




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:36:31 EST
thanks for letting us know




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:36:28 EST
ahh damn .. I will speak with Thomas I am sure he did it accidentally, he was just replacing some
wording




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:35:48 EST
replied or retweeted or ?




Shane
02/17/2021 at 17:35:08 EST
what happened exactly ?




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:55:35 EST
ok going to drop some screens now
​Shane
 02/17/2021 at 15:55:26 EST
 lol




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:54:33 EST
beard products? You think I have time to leave my house .. or desk ?




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:53:53 EST
is in the doc URL on the YT video




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:51:05 EST
yes he said Unity and Blender




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:44:44 EST
too early to say exactly, we have experts working on how that will work though




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:43:09 EST
damn @null he knows our secret




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:42:41 EST
yeah I get it. I didn't reprimand you just explained myself too ..




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:40:56 EST
lol




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:40:44 EST
I usually spend a few mins coming in here before announcing something .. it's a little bit of
enjoyment. I work hard enough




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:39:23 EST
he is just messaging everyone he knows rn .. lol




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:38:34 EST
ok, will make a mental note on that - can't wait for your post on Monday of a real time rendering
massive scale env with 4K quality details moving at hundreds of kms without popping etc




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:34:37 EST
yes - he said a few days - go for it




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:33:41 EST
so you just made an easy $15K if you do what you said you can do




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:32:59 EST
just about to post




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:32:08 EST
ok




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:31:33 EST
I just dropped in to post some screenshots - will give you a target to get those screenshots
rendering real time at scale at the ability to move at hundreds of KMs per hour




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:29:10 EST
I'll add $10K




Shane
02/17/2021 at 15:28:41 EST
PM me last 4 digits and I'll ping to the payment team




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:53:00 EST
then shaving would most certainly have the opposite affect




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:51:50 EST
but tomorrow is already today




Shane
​ 02/16/2021 at 16:51:14 EST
 https://tenor.com/view/mario-bed-tired-gif-13097259




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:49:28 EST
I am talking Phase 2 he is talking Phase 3 and we will have solutions for both




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:45:27 EST
I love it every time I see a mega city. Am certainly discussing these with Wolfgang !




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:44:48 EST
doesn't sound like you have much of a choice there @Wolfgang




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:41:58 EST
are their buildings on all land across the planet ?




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:41:23 EST
we can't do everything overnight, but we have some CRAZY interesting plans for Earth on so
many levels .. stick with us and find out. I love thinking outside the box as is probably already
some what evident




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:39:09 EST
thank you - much appreciated. Get emotional when I read this stuff .. try not to write it too often
ok? One of these days I'll do a stream after I have actually slept so I'm not all zoned out




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:36:33 EST
your username is just too tempting an answer to that question ..




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:35:17 EST
not yet -we still have not pursued any mainstream media .. though I did speak with a journalist the
other day who works for a company that has billions of views daily ..




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:34:33 EST
Check the YouTube description - I think there is a high level indication there




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:33:01 EST
I was just playing




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:32:25 EST
do you own tiles on Everest ?




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:26:14 EST
yup it's 7:25am here .. another day .. 5 hrs sleep in the past 40hrs for me




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:25:51 EST
some ownership right there people




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:25:02 EST
yes, we are starting now because there will be a need for this very platform .. and here it is




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:24:17 EST
I still get goosebumps




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:23:26 EST
for important updates we would like give more notice than just 24hrs




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:20:39 EST
well I have stated many times we are building a platform and a game




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:17:42 EST
@null I mean how do you even answer this accusation ?




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:16:21 EST
...




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:15:38 EST
​btw did we mention Wolfgang is also creating 10 core languages for Earth 2 while planning the full
 economics, design, tech tree, PvP, structure, ideology ..




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:13:32 EST
I am not taking it personally. I am just setting some facts straight because my team and hundreds
of thousands of people are involved with Earth 2. I am not in here as often as I would like to be
and if I see something that's i
ncorrect then I will call it out. Had I not said anything Noel would still be in here copy / pasting
small scale, mediocre terrain system videos claiming they are the same thing ..




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:09:49 EST
S.......OON!




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:09:41 EST
cool! Reach out to the Berlin office when it's finished setting up!




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:09:19 EST
that's because we have built so much of our own engine on top




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:08:50 EST
this is true. Don't force us to learn a lesson here and change to annual updates!




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:08:15 EST
that must be a given ?




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:06:17 EST
yes true




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:06:01 EST
definitely hope for less but I cannot guarantee. We have additional biomes on the table already




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:05:20 EST
Earth 2 Property Location - like a URL ..




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:04:37 EST
but the answer is sitting right in front of you.. as a unity dev you should know how hard it is to
achieve what this footage shows. And more will come, this is where we have started and we have
not stated it is also the end.




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:02:32 EST
100% !




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:02:12 EST
exactly .. my barber calls me to come in for a trim .. maybe I will do it one day soon and post
before and after on my twitter lol




Shane
02/16/2021 at 16:01:28 EST
I'm with you .. watch in full quality. You won't find a game that can do this




Shane
02/16/2021 at 15:59:20 EST
yes, I can 100% accept people who don't know better, I get it .. but someone claiming to be a unity
dev coming in and stating that is hilarious .. so lucky Nathaniel isn't online would be put to shame ..




Shane
02/16/2021 at 15:56:38 EST
you say you're a Unity developer and then you also use the word 'just' ...




Shane
02/16/2021 at 15:47:36 EST
yeah, so just come in here and bag it a bit, drop some mediocre small scale terrain system vids
that don't even compare to what we have built, claim you're a pro that doesn't have time to build
something like this then disap
pear into shadows ? If you were a true game dev you'd be appreciating what we've done .. anyway




Shane
02/16/2021 at 15:44:33 EST
guys .. come on .. you think we don't know about the terrain editors out there? Show me one that
has the detail we have, loads to scale, fast, no popping etc etc etc etc (not moving slowly and
faded backgrounds on small m
aps) ..




Shane
02/16/2021 at 15:39:35 EST
I said testing mid Feb




Shane
02/16/2021 at 15:37:12 EST
is going well!
​Shane
 02/16/2021 at 15:36:16 EST
 100% thank you all for your ongoing support




Shane
02/16/2021 at 15:33:42 EST

I love you




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:57:12 EST
we already have them, but we felt the video of this system was enough to show people what we
are capable of. These things need to be balanced and with a little research people will realise the
footage we have displayed i
s incredible ..
Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:55:38 EST
we have that coming - why bombard everyone with everything in one day?




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:54:29 EST
yes, please read the video description




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:54:04 EST
our game studio will be based in Berlin and we will be looking for juniors to be part of the team. By
all means please apply when the opening comes up




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:52:12 EST
we have just shown you a video with hundreds of thousands of trees, grass blades, rocks, flowers
.. you name it .. all loading instantly in a massive environment. I understand you want to see a
building but if you stop and thi
nk about what is actually presented in the footage it's mind boggling ..




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:50:19 EST
yes we are aiming for that. Phase 2 is still progressing. The video has been shared for validation
and to show people that we have the capabilities. I understand it's hard for people that don't
understand games or limitations,
but what Nathaniel has built here is incredible and most anyone with technical know how in the
industry would certainly agree




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:47:20 EST
yeah we are trying to roll out parts in Feb and many more updates are to come. We will probably
discuss those and the video in a stream some time soon




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:45:35 EST
I said there would be a follow up video I think .. ? Or maybe you haven't watched the stream we
did when the video played




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:44:14 EST
yeah it's on our list




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:43:40 EST
it's not a video - it is already created .. it's a recording of in game




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:42:05 EST
lol
Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:41:01 EST
Dillon is the man! Sleep well!




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:40:11 EST
how do you guys hack into my PC ?




Shane
02/16/2021 at 14:39:38 EST
this




Shane
02/16/2021 at 09:13:23 EST
ok I have to get back to work, I have a million things to chase up. You guys can see how
overgrown my hair is soon as I wanted to stream some of our team watching the video with the
world.




Shane
02/16/2021 at 09:11:29 EST
lol NO! I worked a 30 hr shift Sun-Mon, slept 4 hours then woke up with a bloody nose! All good
but, I am still alive




Shane
02/16/2021 at 09:09:39 EST
we spent hours with him over many weeks with that issue trying to solve it with him. In the end he
messaged and admitted he was wrong (and tried to blame some on us but we did send it to the
correct account). I know abo
ut this because I was personally trying to help him. We will send it to him again but if you give us
the wrong details or if your bank cannot accept USD we cannot just drop everything and fix these
issues for you. We have so
many payments to process and it takes time. Yours will come. We are working on ways to
improve this but I guarantee you it will come, please understand this is what happens when
hundreds of thousands of people join a
platform within a matter of weeks
​Shane
 02/16/2021 at 09:04:30 EST
 I just checked your PM. I remember this case, I froze accounts around it personally, I think there is
 an account holding most of your properties that is frozen already so I think most properties of
 yours are safe it will just take
 a little while to fix it. Hang in there .. we will work something out but this is another example about
 why it's important to only login to the Earth 2 website with your creds.. there are a lot of scammers
 out there trying to trick pe
 ople to login elsewhere




Shane
02/16/2021 at 08:58:06 EST
just opened this and saw that lol - back to work for me




Shane
02/16/2021 at 08:57:43 EST
"Guys video coming soon"




Shane
02/14/2021 at 10:45:19 EST
This is the first step of a number of updates we have planned through the week. Nothing huge
visually will change after this server maintenance but it will pave the way for some other updates
we have planned over the com
ing week




Shane
02/10/2021 at 13:05:18 EST
Someone give this @se1ke a medal!




Shane
02/10/2021 at 12:16:27 EST
yes I am sorry, I had meetings all day and missed the time we are trying to stick with timelines. But
just to make clear, this is a timer starting for the video countdown within a week




Shane
02/10/2021 at 11:59:22 EST
I did already




Shane
02/10/2021 at 11:56:00 EST
yes .. but in 18 months




Shane
02/10/2021 at 11:55:37 EST
me too




Shane
02/10/2021 at 11:54:56 EST
it's so refreshing to see people focusing on the future of Earth 2 .. just browsing over, love it ..




Shane
02/10/2021 at 11:06:03 EST
we are looking at that too




Shane
02/10/2021 at 11:05:45 EST
coming very soon - I have to get back to work




Shane
02/10/2021 at 11:05:08 EST
done




Shane
02/08/2021 at 19:18:54 EST
we stopped using them, that is our position. We are discussing further with their most senior
teams, but that's all I will say it's confidential
Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:19:30 EST
interesting




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:17:41 EST
sorry - you can use bank deposit if you want to prep for Dubai maybe




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:16:48 EST
if you wait a moment you will find out




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:16:13 EST
we removed them ..




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:15:31 EST
announcement very soon




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:15:24 EST
​anyway, I will get back to what I was doing




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:14:58 EST
sometimes it doesn't work that way




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:14:14 EST
EXACTLY !! AT LEAST SOME ONE REMEMBERS !




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:13:50 EST
we are working on it




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:13:15 EST
we are allowed to change a payment provider .. and there are reasons things are done in order




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:12:31 EST

will announce very soon - I don't think people want to wait 8 hrslol




Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:11:49 EST
actually already lol
Shane
02/08/2021 at 17:11:28 EST
we removed PayPal - announcement is coming just wait please




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:21:15 EST
that is one I often share with Dillon lol




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:21:05 EST
https://tenor.com/view/mario-super-mario-rpg-sleep-gif-9431892




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:20:06 EST
almost 4:30 am guys - I am out for now - I have more work to finish and I want to try to wake up to
see my kids off to school Thanks for the support and appreciate the patience, we will get there ..




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:18:23 EST
we have not frozen every account. There are people out there coming up with ways to abuse the
system every day and we need to keep on top of them. We're not going to come out publicly and
say how now are we ..




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:17:35 EST
we are not sure yet, you are talking about Phase 3




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:16:08 EST
but if people took care in what they are doing it also would not occur. Most mistakes are due to
human error. Then people will complain it's too hard to sell. I will write it down as an optional thing
though, optional is a great id
ea




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:15:02 EST
we are building systems to make it more automated




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:14:31 EST
yes I imagine it will for sure. That is why we want people to be aware of of the benefits way before
we allow sub division




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:11:16 EST
I am sorry, we have already spoken with the team member that wrote that. Actually many
payments were processed in that time frame but our systems detected connections with
'suspicious' accounts and they take longer t
o review manually
Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:05:30 EST
I have the same size OLED TV - and I watch our Earth 2 demo video on it daily when I can in 4K ..
it's a surreal escape .. very relaxing




Shane
02/07/2021 at 13:02:29 EST
Entropia take 60 days and they have been established for years ...




Shane
02/07/2021 at 12:52:16 EST
no - I just picked that name out of a hat




Shane
​ 02/07/2021 at 12:51:16 EST




Shane
02/07/2021 at 12:50:53 EST
I'd love the dinner and appreciate the offer. But try to look at this more long term




Shane
02/07/2021 at 12:49:12 EST
they do when your team is already working 16hrs+ per day..




Shane
02/07/2021 at 12:48:05 EST
oh dear ...




Shane
02/07/2021 at 12:46:53 EST
it's a short announcement about 2FA, account security and being wary of scammers




Shane
02/07/2021 at 12:45:01 EST
we are aware of many small bugs, the problem is we are focusing on larger things right now.
There are so many core areas we need to improve which people don't notice as much, but we will
definitely get onto those when
we have the time. Right now we are focusing on protecting user accounts, identifying users
scamming the system and other users and improving withdrawal / support




Shane
02/07/2021 at 12:42:38 EST
the video will give insight to what Phase 3 will be like, it's validation to show what we have already
created but it's really cool validation




Shane
02/07/2021 at 12:41:45 EST
@null is my brother from another mother! Glad to be here with him




Shane
02/07/2021 at 12:39:21 EST
if you do just be careful - use incognito with multiple accounts on the same device where possible




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:44:12 EST
the honour is mine, and I hope we can build on that for you.




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:43:31 EST
haha yes, too late. But I am going to sleep now. Hope you all have a good day.




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:42:49 EST
Dubai is well and truly warming up




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:42:17 EST
this is true




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:41:30 EST
well they do .. they just don't have the balls to create a Discord like we did ..




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:40:41 EST
I was not sure who is he was until a few days ago when my team members mentioned it to me.
We have never paid $1 to anyone to promote Earth 2 outside of some Facebook adverts




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:39:16 EST
trust me - I don't to do everything myself nor can I - but it's quite normal for companies to have
certain people that make announcements, otherwise you could have anybody say anything




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:37:39 EST
exactly, and I feel the advantages are going to be quite significant




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:36:29 EST
Is almost 9am here and I need to sleep. I hope one day we can tell the story of all that has been
taking place over these weeks, I am sure many of you will be interested to know .. there are so
many things we need to deal
with daily right now - we are working to handle them all and look forward to being back on track
soon. You can see the comments above, one comment is asking to maintain momentum and two
comments later is asking to t
ake things slow - we are considering all of these things daily and devising a plan to move forward
and let people better understand what the short term future looks like .. which I think is very
exciting




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:29:58 EST
the video has been ready for weeks now, we just need some things to be completed before
releasing it




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:29:10 EST
I have been wanting to watch that movie "Trading Places" with them.. since early December
​Shane
 02/06/2021 at 17:28:05 EST
 I do in a way lol




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:25:58 EST
my kids have been waiting 9 weeks for me to watch a movie with them




Shane
02/06/2021 at 17:25:18 EST
how about Shane has been sitting in front of the computer for 20 hours and can hardly keep his
eyes open ?




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:34:33 EST
so I work 20hrs then am not allowed to say hello to the community for 20 mins? This is eating
away at my sleeping time - is that ok for you then ?




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:33:41 EST
it's 5:30am here, but good night all!




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:32:23 EST
well I am in here chatting to say hello - it's just an update, but if you insist, I will leave now post it
and go to sleep




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:31:13 EST
a lot of stuff is aimed at anyone trying to do something different .. and a lot of stuff is aimed and
any company that deals with money - do you know how many negative comments are on the
internet at all major companies?
There are always people complaining .. we almost have 250K users, there are going to be some
who complain




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:29:46 EST
I see these from time to time and LOVE IT ! So amazing what people have already created and
this is only phase 1!
Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:28:31 EST
it may have been related to users exploiting glitches




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:27:40 EST
hopefully I will be able to show you one day lol




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:26:50 EST
right up in the mountains in South Korea actually ..




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:26:23 EST
there is no need to be involved - if you're unsure just remain unsure.. we have never pushed
anyone to be involved and we're not going to start now




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:24:44 EST
I have never watched that stream, I was an absolute zombie .. cannot even recall what I said!




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:23:49 EST
great idea!




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:23:04 EST
please stop reading my notes!




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:22:19 EST
I did answer another question above - 95% complete




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:21:01 EST
my wife pities me .. she sees the bags under my eyes daily lol




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:19:37 EST
I could already live comfortably .. I already had most things people would want in life before
starting Earth 2. Earth 2 is a challenge and dream for me more than anything else, and I think we
have the plan to make it work




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:17:50 EST
yes, that is 95% complete
Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:17:36 EST
they are more or less ready, just running final tests - but we are also working on a few other things
too - some PR coming up also .. working in a lot of areas atm
​Shane
 01/30/2021 at 14:16:31 EST
 ok posting now - then I will finish a chat with Nathaniel and off to bed! Nathaniel, Thomas and the
 team have been working all weekend too - really amazing dedication




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:14:29 EST
I take responsibility too seriously perhaps




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:14:03 EST
that is a dream of mine right now .. seriously ..




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:13:15 EST
5am Sunday morning, my family complain they never see me as sitting at my desk all day and
night and day ..




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:12:12 EST
it's just an announcement about withdrawals and support guys - but some more exciting
announcements are set over coming weeks




Shane
01/30/2021 at 14:11:10 EST
I don't drink coffee and I also have not slept lol




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:12:38 EST
why would we do that ?




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:10:13 EST
and when someone asks about Dubai lol




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:08:29 EST
ok - my sleep has gone from 4 hrs to 3 hrs max now - I really need to go - hope everyone enjoyed
what we have released and let's look forward to the next few following weeks!




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:07:05 EST
way too early for us to answer this question - but great question




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:06:19 EST
mimic it - change into it .. morph into it if that resource is available
Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:05:44 EST
you need to ask an accountant in your country. Earth 2 is a game inside, that's what it is, I imagine
if you withdraw something for a profit it would be taxable.. but inside Earth 2 it's a game and you
cannot use things inside Ea
rth 2 to purchase anything outside Earth 2




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:04:17 EST
I have mentioned before that I would love to see cities floating over the water




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:03:36 EST
but when did we say we are a bank? We are trying to best we possibly can and we are actually
paying out sooner than massive multi billion dollar companies take to give refunds in some cases
..




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:02:02 EST
Note to self?




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:01:38 EST
I think that is kind of ther etoo ..




Shane
01/27/2021 at 12:00:52 EST
@Wolfgang responded above, we didn't say it won't
​#
Shane
general
01/27/2021 at 11:59:48 EST
did the 5announcement
Page of 5 say some tiles will be useless?

Generated with Discrub

Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:58:48 EST
we will definitely be promoting trade and there will be value for the resources in this trade




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:58:04 EST
please read it carefully .. just because we noted Gold Mine does not mean it is limited to only gold
mines ..




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:57:23 EST
it will come out soon - I think we have it covered very well




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:56:30 EST
PM @lanhhuyet510 please if you think you can. Thank you




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:54:32 EST
a little early to give out rules for merging. First we will allow users time to understand how the
teleportation feature will operate and the pot
ential massive benefits that will have on properties .. then we will allow users to subdivide after
that has become common knowledge. Then
we will look at merging




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:52:55 EST
just ... ?




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:52:08 EST
the team are processing withdrawals continuously, nothing has changed there. We will probably
try to update our team page over the next
day or so adding a number of new staff - Financial Controller, In House Counsel etc - these guys
have been working for some time we hav
e just not managed to update




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:50:12 EST
I want to make it available for all ages where possible




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:49:28 EST
well it did .. if you read carefully and you understand the dynamics of Earth 2 ..




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:48:34 EST
we said we are releasing in game video footage of the terrain system soon ..




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:45:36 EST
​It is way too early to answer that question




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:44:10 EST
HAHAHA




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:40:27 EST
big who?




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:37:58 EST
merge will come later - there will be steps
Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:35:16 EST
we have trouble keeping our own times right now let alone taking on apprentices! But long term
we would love to involve younger devs 100
%!




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:34:30 EST
that is a difficult question, but I think what you are focusing on is the tile price affecting the ability
to generate resources, and to answer that
I would say definitely not




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:32:33 EST
you can hold off




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:31:27 EST
no




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:30:54 EST
so we should spend our lives hiding in a corner ?




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:29:31 EST
one thing I need to make clear $E DOES NOT = ESSENCE !




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:29:08 EST
exactly - thank you so much for understanding - our whole team is working extremely hard and
very long hours - this is not easy




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:28:33 EST
well there is a lot of facts in there too if you read carefully




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:28:15 EST
I will let @Wolfgang @null @frommy97 and team take over for a while - sleep is the only resource
I am interested in right now.
​Shane
 01/27/2021 at 11:25:39 EST
 actually the announcement didn't state that at all .. quite the opposite




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:07:32 EST
there are already a million things going on right now, it's really intense, you guys just don't see it
Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:05:56 EST
well I need to wake up in 4 hours - that's the longest I can sleep




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:05:05 EST
ahh I love you guys, I know I can be informal at times, but you all hold a special place in my heart
and I feel comfortable with you all - I nee
d to interact here more to cheer up my spirits




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:03:29 EST
I mean the announcement is very soon - I want to make it before I sleep




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:02:27 EST
I love to sleep when I can lol - don't get me wrong !




Shane
01/27/2021 at 11:01:29 EST
Hey - we are allowed to have some downtime, we are planning things - many announcements to
make and some exciting partnerships in t
he making. We can switch things back to full steam more or less whenever we like. Anyway,
announcement details very soon guys, I need
to sleep .. 4 hrs in 3 days now and I have another busy day ahead




Shane
01/24/2021 at 12:24:17 EST
that is exactly what we were worried about




Shane
01/24/2021 at 12:22:26 EST
no it happened around 5pm our time, then 6:30pm she had trouble breathing, then we were in
hospital for hours after that (is now almost 3
:30am)




Shane
01/24/2021 at 12:19:35 EST
It's the same story guys, I have hardly slept, is almost 3:30am and I need to wake up early for a
very busy day.. it's extremely tiring. Thank
s for you support and we'll get there




Shane
01/24/2021 at 12:17:25 EST
updated <#775034906656636948> guys thank you for the well wishes, my daughter is ok - she
inhaled water when swimming in the pool
with her brother then had chest pain when breathing so we rushed her to hospital. Thank you for
all the kind messages of support
​Shane
 01/17/2021 at 12:50:33 EST
 thanks guys - it is almost 4am here and I still have some work to finish up on - look forward to
 dropping in next time and keep safe!
Shane

01/17/2021 at 12:47:52 EST
thumb is really good but no rest - have a number more big meetings tomorrow + all the usual daily
work .. I had an amazing 2 hour meeting
with C level MapBox earlier today .. these guys are also amazing to work with!




Shane
01/17/2021 at 12:46:05 EST
Nathaniel is a pure genius




Shane
01/17/2021 at 12:45:28 EST
it's coming - we just need to put some things in place first




Shane
01/17/2021 at 12:43:36 EST
not sure you will say that after you see what we have achieved ..




Shane
01/17/2021 at 12:36:27 EST
no - you seem to come in here almost daily and tell half the story, so I was just setting the record
straight because the MODs already have
a hard enough job as it is ..




Shane
01/17/2021 at 12:35:20 EST
thank you @wallacetko




Shane
01/17/2021 at 12:34:51 EST
no, you have even emailed us telling us your bank told you that you need to wait 10 days - so how
is that our fault ?




Shane
01/17/2021 at 12:31:32 EST
@LXNGERED I am not sure what else we can do here. I have personally spent hours with you
trying to resolve your issue in trust, the e2
payment team has also spent time with you trying to work out why you say you have not received
the payment from us. Yet you come in h
ere and complain without explaining that the e2 team (including myself) has tried time and time
again to work with you. We cannot know w
hy your bank is not showing / processing your funds - you need to work this out with them, we
have no authority to access your bank acco
unt or request details from your bank. The funds are sent our side and we have not received any
cancellation or funds returned our side (I
am happy to sign a Statutory Declaration with regards to that). TransferWise has told you that the
funds have been sent to your bank, we h
ave told you the same and supplied evidence to you (as attached with personal details removed),
yet you come in here and accuse us of d
oing nothing and ignoring you .. we have given you an official receipt to take to your bank and your
bank has told to you wait for them to re
spond, yet you come in here again and point the finger at us ..please refrain from coming in here
time and time again to publicly mislead e
veryone with regards to the status of payment ... I am writing this because the MODs have trouble
handling you and your accusations so I
want to set the record straight so they have something to refer to. We are happy to help anyone
experiencing issues with payments, but pl
ease at least tell the full story if you want to complain publicly ..




e2LXN_Transfer.png
43KB
​Shane
 01/16/2021 at 14:39:13 EST
 I think I woke up some time yesterday morning lol




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:39:01 EST
good night guys (or good morning, it's almost 6am here)




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:38:24 EST
right




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:38:12 EST
I need to get some sleep guys, just wanted to say hello. I have 3-4 people waiting for my help, I
am going to try to support their issues if I c
an then grab some sleep




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:37:07 EST
that is one reason we catch details on withdrawal .. people complain about it but we need to be
careful also




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:36:14 EST
support@earth2.io




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:35:50 EST
yes, I would definitely go with that one lol




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:34:47 EST
I agree too - but I am also confident that unless you have used a silly simple password your
account is safe. Our systems ban IP addresse
s after a few failed attempts to login. If we didn't have that system 2FA would have been higher
priority some time ago




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:33:27 EST
at the moment the plan is no




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:27:16 EST
it's not that simple .. we are working on it but it changes many things. Subdividing will come before
merging - and before both I want to allo
w people a chance to understand some long term advantages to having larger properties .. so
there will be a process




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:25:34 EST
exactly




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:25:24 EST
obviously my predictions are not very good .. I thought it would take 18 months to get to where we
are today after 2.5 months ..
​Shane
 01/16/2021 at 14:24:27 EST
 but we have all their details (IP addresses, etc etc)




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:24:11 EST
we will get back to those, I guess it depends what they have done and the severity - most
accounts are just frozen for now




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:20:32 EST
ok - I will need to go soon but will look quickly - if it's something I can fix quickly I will




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:20:03 EST
I am not sure but I said we will announce when it's up to date. It may take another week or so




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:16:55 EST
country




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:16:06 EST
yes, do you know how difficult it is to merge my ideas into the current platform and increase value
for everyone ? Anyway, the answer is ge
nerally yes, it will be something that is not yet there and will apply to all current properties, some
more than others, but all will have further
purpose / use if that makes sense ..




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:14:12 EST
PM me your account email




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:13:46 EST
I think they are catching up. If it's a really hard case then it might be waiting on me .. I need to
advise for the hard cases and I simply run o
ut of time daily .. I am guilty of having cases in my inbox that I have not been able to get to yet
Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:12:35 EST
what's a time zone ?




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:12:25 EST
ahh yes, it is an idea I had some time ago and was going to build in later but I think it's important
people find out about it sooner than later




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:11:41 EST
most welcome! I feel the weight of 'Earth 2' on my shoulders .. not something I take lightly. But all
team members are still super excited an
d we're looking forward to what's coming next




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:10:03 EST
still awake - I will sleep soon
​Shane
 01/16/2021 at 14:09:28 EST
 haha true! I am guilty of being a workaholic .. a company was running character references on me
 and it came back that my weaknesses w
 ere "working too much and not going easy on myself" lol




Shane
01/16/2021 at 14:07:33 EST
why do we need to be dead? I would prefer to see someone find a golden egg and enjoy any such
rewards (not confirming there will be gol
den eggs, or Easter eggs etc!)




Shane
01/14/2021 at 10:03:28 EST
I wish




Shane
01/14/2021 at 10:03:18 EST
ok I had better get back to work




Shane
01/14/2021 at 10:03:02 EST
yes you're right - I was just too focused to take enough notice




Shane
01/14/2021 at 10:02:42 EST
haha




Shane
01/14/2021 at 10:02:31 EST
yes that was 2 days ago now, feeling much better now thanks
Shane
01/14/2021 at 10:01:57 EST
yes I was already on antibiotics for days and it kept swelling




Shane
01/14/2021 at 10:00:50 EST
Sorry I know it’s disgusting but this is how bad my thumb became before o had to have it drained.
My whole arm was more or less numb. A
ll thanks to Earth 2




image0.png
1000.27KB




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:56:55 EST
this has been said to us on a number of occasions .. hopefully we have set a number of world
records, Earth 2 deserves nothing less!




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:52:11 EST
haha .. you have no idea! Or well maybe you do ..
​Shane
 01/14/2021 at 09:51:55 EST
 yeah we are processing some more days right now, hopefully will be out in 12 hours or less if
 goes well. We will continue to catch up until i
 t runs daily again




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:50:18 EST
my thumb literally became infected from typing too much over those 6 weeks ..




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:49:52 EST
yes well .. I actually needed it drained .. it got that bad .. I was so focused on Earth 2 I didn't realise
how bad it became




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:49:18 EST
love you too! lol




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:49:08 EST
I am feeling a bit better now since the server issue was resolved, thanks.




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:48:05 EST
I mean the number of people wanting to invest / buy shares in this project .. we could probably
raise 10s of millions tomorrow with offers al
one but we are just focusing on the next tasks at hand. It's almost 1am here and I need to focus
back on completing some documents - ev
erything is looking good but guys, thanks for your patience and have a great day!
Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:45:19 EST
if you could see my inbox ..




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:45:03 EST
I am really looking forward to having some more time and jumping in with you guys again, really
love it .. we will try to organise another str
eam soon




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:43:29 EST
Cole is right, I literally spent 8 hours on calls today alone .. there are many things happening and I
am extremely busy making Earth 2 work
and achieve it's next goals




Shane
01/14/2021 at 09:42:39 EST
you want to see me again that badly?




Shane
01/10/2021 at 01:34:35 EST
100% - these guys are in some serious trouble




Shane
01/07/2021 at 17:11:48 EST
I wish !
​Shane
 01/07/2021 at 14:40:34 EST
 what ego ?




Shane
01/07/2021 at 14:38:08 EST
no problem - PM me your account email and we will sort it on paypal for you




Shane
01/07/2021 at 14:22:00 EST
I am not worried about wealth so much .. I was already wealthy enough, but I know what it's like to
have a dollar in my pocket .. I am more
focused on you all, your love and support .. and trying to make sure the foundations of our dreams
come true. I take responsibility very seri
ously, so I feel it all when I read good and bad comments. Servers are getting close, I'll get back to
it. Hope you all have a wonderful day.




Shane
01/07/2021 at 14:14:26 EST
I will get sleep after the servers are ok, thank you. I feel a great deal of responsibility and weight on
my shoulders and a great deal of debt
to you all for your amazing support and belief .. it drives me .. thank you
Shane
01/07/2021 at 14:11:16 EST
working on the server updates, I cannot sleep until I am sure it's ok




Shane
01/07/2021 at 14:07:25 EST

yeah I know it's a few, and you guys are amazing, really looking forward to building this together.
But there are people that just carry on an
d it takes valuable time to deal with. I can hardly type right now because my thumb is infected due
to so much typing over the past weeks
and the infection moved to my body because I didn't see the doctors early enough




Shane
01/07/2021 at 14:05:38 EST
would you like us to just hire any army who can access and control your credits and private details
?




Shane
01/07/2021 at 14:03:05 EST
you know, every time people go and complain to PayPal or whatever, we need to deal with it, it
takes us extra time and is really frustrating
.. please understand we're growing really fast and we're scaling .. everywhere ..




Shane
01/06/2021 at 17:25:50 EST
AZIZ MORE LIGHT !




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:22:47 EST
email support@earth2.io or credits@earth2.io - they will sort it out for you




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:21:07 EST
yes I am off now.
​Shane
 01/06/2021 at 04:20:16 EST
 yeah could be a new issue




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:19:47 EST
yes sometimes ingcognito window also helps. We are catching up on these issues




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:19:12 EST
that is a different issue .. we need to investigate this one - please email support with title "Over
Capacity after Login"




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:18:12 EST
if you get a busy window try to refresh a few times (yeah kill the servers more) sometimes it just
means you connection with one of the cont
ainers has lapsed / timed out
Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:17:37 EST
try refreshing a few times




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:17:29 EST
we are going to run tests tomorrow with new algorithms if the servers hold tight but I cannot lock in
a time




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:16:54 EST
they should work, I am not sure why they wouldn't - should allow you to reset




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:15:29 EST
hopefully 3-4 days we will have email and pw reset on settings if servers stay strong




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:15:03 EST
please try refreshing the page a few times it should work




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:14:37 EST
I am not sure we will have time for it this month




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:13:59 EST
I will try when I wake up but I literally have 500 messages there, it's really hard to track them




Shane
01/06/2021 at 04:13:02 EST
I thought I would go and check some e2memes before trying to sleep to have some laughs and
relax (so many laughs in there!). And I ca
me across this! My hero!!




e2TATTOO.jpg
​672.19KB




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:28:29 EST
already thinking on that




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:27:55 EST
ok guys, I actually have an infected thumb from typing so much then lack of sleep, I need to see a
doctor and it's very hard to type so will h
ave to step out for now. Thanks for your patience and we'll keep working hard




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:26:45 EST
a brain that NEVER shuts up ..




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:26:15 EST
it could take longer, but you can email support@earth2.io and they will check and fix it for you




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:25:36 EST
yes but now the servers are ok we can start to catch up hopefully




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:25:03 EST
catch some sleep for me




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:24:53 EST
tears .. I love those stories




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:23:51 EST
people can buy and sell as they wish .. it's only really illegal if they try to mislead people and then
trick you to buy but that has been really li
mited. We are going to work on more updates for this but it's tricky to balance. Because we still
need to show people what tiles are trading
at too ..




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:22:28 EST
not sure what that video was




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:21:48 EST
yes, probably true!




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:21:36 EST
sorry cannot share, but we're working on plans to make it interesting and some what balanced




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:20:54 EST
​NOOOO WAY !! I knew it was a big concept but the love has been INCREDIBLE !




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:20:39 EST
2-3 days will be ok, we are working on things one step at a time




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:20:24 EST
yes, soon as we have servers 100% ready to go. We are working on more upgrades .. we're not
sure what will happen when we release th
e video .. so we're making sure we're as prepared as we can be this time. We didn't think our
launch would catch this much attention so fas
t .. so need to be prepared for whatever may come next




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:18:58 EST
I ask myself the same question .. I have been living on a average of 2-3 hrs sleep per day for the
last 3 weeks ..




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:18:31 EST
yeah I thought LIT sounded more cool




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:17:48 EST
its' backlogged .. it will come




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:17:35 EST
not true, it's dependant on the size




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:17:20 EST
just an acronym I made up for Land Income Tax




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:17:01 EST
we have had some awesome security team help us out and we have internal sec working, but
when we have time we will surely start som
e bounty program .. maybe some tiles ?




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:16:22 EST
no plan yet, we have other more critical issues to handle




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:15:57 EST
yes we are working on a number of improvements, we just needed to get the servers stable




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:15:13 EST
ahh wish I could have some now
Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:14:32 EST
​you think? I hate my accent .. don't like listening to my voice so I will not be watching that stream
 lol




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:13:56 EST
ok hold up




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:13:43 EST
one step at a time - we tried to rush LIT and look what happened to the servers .. it will come. I
have a team working on full time and we sh
ould try to run something tomorrow




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:12:54 EST
wait about 10 mins or so just to be sure - your land might be taking some time to add




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:12:00 EST
we need to refactor that code, so it may be a few days - we need to stablilise first




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:11:31 EST
Sleep? Haha ! 1 hr




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:11:03 EST
PM me your username and account email




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:10:49 EST
just have some patience when buying please, there are still some delays




Shane
01/06/2021 at 00:09:38 EST
fingers crossed




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:48:02 EST
Ok I need to go now, sorry, I only had just over 2hrs sleep and need to catch up some more. Have
a good day guys




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:46:59 EST
this is too good
Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:46:32 EST
I think we should go hybrid on Earth 2 @Dillon lol




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:46:06 EST
please wait before doing that .. just wait until we release more details. We cannot answer every
question right now but you'll find out more
very soon
​Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:45:16 EST
HAHA HOW DID YOU MAKE THAT SO FAST!?




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:44:37 EST
yeah he is a tall guy!




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:43:37 EST
Ok I know there are a lot of conspiracies running around about us all the time, but this is a new
one! Here is a photo of @Dillon and I being
the same person! An Earth 2 world first!!




71810268_10219800682470330_7010514661577588736_o.jpg
99.95KB




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:35:52 EST
not sure how we are going to pull that one off in the Twitch call ..




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:35:29 EST
right .. that would be funny @Dillon lol




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:35:00 EST
I understand if you feel that way, simply do not buy land and you're clear .. there is no pressure to
get involved .. we are working the best w
e can right now and I realise it won't be enough for some so please do not feel pressure to get
involved ..




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:32:48 EST
3 hours .. seriously .. with my wife and 3 kids .. I spent 15 hours working on e2 Christmas day.
Thanks for the nice comment. I do feel a gre
at burden in making sure this develops into what I want it to be for everyone now and in the future,
and I can say one thing, I am an extrem
ely persevering person and I never give up .. stubborn if you like, so just know that I do feel the
responsibility and we are all as a team awar
e of this, if you can give us patience I am sure we can give you a future on Earth 2.. now I really
need to go .. thank you once again for all t
he amazing comments and thank you for the support
Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:27:53 EST
via the process emailing credits@earth2.io




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:26:49 EST
that would be awesome .. I actually shed some tears when I was shown posts of Facebook of a
player who bought a PS5 for his family du
e to Earth 2 .. I get teary thinking about it now. I want Earth 2 to be a place people can express
themselves but also build dreams .. I will ex
plain more in the Twitch video




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:25:22 EST
sorry guys I have to go, these are all awesome questions and I am now wondering if we can keep
the 30-45 min guideline we were aiming
for the Twitch feed! I will try to answer more questions there I think some people are helping in
putting Qs together for us and we will use
​that as a guideline for the answer part of the Twitch feed..




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:24:07 EST
you're welcome




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:23:29 EST
for the land owner part I believe




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:23:13 EST
I don't want it to be no .. probably for land owners but not actual players .. I want it to be free to
play always ..




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:22:34 EST
we have told people time and time again to please not buy land if they don't feel comfortable .. we
are aware of these things but we cannot
catch up right now




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:21:30 EST
I can just say it's there for now, we have a backend there for it .. but TBH I just missed it on soft-
launch and I have not had a chance to brea
th .. forgot it was there ..




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:20:25 EST
that would be cool but cannot say. I think in the past I have mentioned it would be amazing to
have cities in the middle of the ocean ..




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:19:53 EST
it's coming, we didn't want to release it until the servers are ready as it would just cause more
systems to run slow and a really bad UX ..




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:18:29 EST
it's coming ..




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:18:23 EST

already answered above




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:18:08 EST
@butt is usually pretty good with these type of Qs




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:17:38 EST
phases - we are planning phases throughout next year and years beyond to maintain interest and
setup economies etc.




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:16:59 EST
another question I cannot answer sorry, I cannot count how many times I receive messages
asking this .. my own family found out about E
​arth 2 and ask me and I tell them I cannot answer




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:16:14 EST
as mentioned, multiple platforms .. VR and other emerging tech is the end goal here.. but I want to
roll out in phases starting from web bas
ed (as we are now) moving onto PC, console (probably) and mobile etc.




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:15:07 EST
yes we were very aware of this early on and we can pivot if there are issues here but we feel it will
be ok




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:14:34 EST
yes they will if they earn income for sure




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:14:09 EST
the question of the world right now ..




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:14:00 EST
yes, we have lawyers all over this stuff and we're acting on advice.
Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:13:34 EST
no ETA yet, but I can say I want e2 to be accessible by multiple platforms .. mobile is going to be
one but we don't have a full time team on
that just yet




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:12:54 EST
this is too funny!




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:12:28 EST
we are hoping for it to be! We are trying to talk with people at the top in PayPal to make
arrangements .. they are very hard to connect with
but we've shown up like a firework on their systems so hopefully someone will reach out to us
soon.




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:11:24 EST
right LOL




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:11:11 EST
yes at this point they will be unless there are more miniature nuclear explosions on Earth 2 each
time it runs




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:10:40 EST
we don't have anything public right now but more info will flow out over coming days and weeks so
long as our servers are ready to scale
.. we don't want to create more hype right now ..




Shane
​ 12/26/2020 at 23:09:44 EST
 we are just monitoring the servers and the updates, after we're happy we will start to work on
 backdating these




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:08:44 EST
we are looking at this but there are many things we need to consider




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:08:21 EST
we use TransferWise .. definitely safe




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:08:05 EST
over my head sorry ..
Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:07:47 EST
thank you that was the result of many days working with live servers and code and was not too
easy, appreciate the patience




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:06:50 EST
we would never do this .. in fact at present we are still covering the transfer fee for everyone!




Shane
12/26/2020 at 23:05:30 EST
please check the <#775034906656636948> page from time to time, it's really difficult to reply to
everything I have my name tagged on and
I did mention some team members were having a little time with family over Christmas, it's Sunday
here right now and that team is working
on withdrawals as we speak, there should be many processed today, really appreciate patience on
this please




Shane
12/26/2020 at 16:31:30 EST
Have a good day everyone!




Shane
12/26/2020 at 16:31:24 EST
Last few days I have been wondering why nobody was out Christmas shopping to give us a break
and time to catch up! Even Christmas da
y it was non-stop!




Shane
12/26/2020 at 16:29:22 EST
b0000m ! Servers are GO ! Hopefully that will hold you guys for a while, the moment we set the
new update live it was filled almost instantl
y it's just insane! Our team check the stats and each time are just amazed that it instantly reaches
the next level! Hopefully that will hold an
yway, I can barely keep my head up so going to crash on the bed right next to my desk as of NOW
!




Shane
12/23/2020 at 15:56:26 EST
I don't fully agree with that. This is a long term project and I think people need to keep an eye on
the end goal too, I assume there will be sh
ort term reactions to various phases we roll out, however, the long term goal is to continue to add
more purpose to the land which should tr
anslate into more value - I don't want land that just remains stagnant and is simply some kind of
trading piece and Phases 2 and 3 will
start to bring that change. I just happened to open Discord and see this message, I need to get
back to work but just wanted to add my 2 c
ents here - hope you're all having a good day.
​Shane
 12/22/2020 at 14:02:02 EST
 <#775034906656636948>




Shane
12/22/2020 at 13:55:50 EST
hey guys - sorry I have not been in for a while, just slowly dying from lack of sleep but I will be
popping in again soon as soon as things
start to settle down. We are working on so many internal projects right now it's really intense!
Shane
12/19/2020 at 18:38:43 EST
I don't think they are right now, we have plans for something else in this area




Shane
12/19/2020 at 18:25:49 EST
this is so true everyone.. please just be patient when the transaction is taking place and try not to
press on other things or refresh..




Shane
12/19/2020 at 18:17:33 EST
If anyone wants to help please spread this suggestion : We also suggest to PLEASE ADD
CREDIT via SETTINGS for now - so many peop
le are buying directly via PayPal for each property it's causing delays to the system so we highly
recommended adding CREDIT then using
DIRECT CREDIT to BUY! PayPal told us the other day that we like a massive heat signal popping
up on their systems because we're proc
essing so many payments, I think our system can process the request faster than PayPal so
please add credit FIRST via Settings (credit is
still added via PayPal but should reduce the frequency). I am just mentioning this because more
users have mentioned PayPal direct purc
hases on land are not completing (because users are not waiting and pressing twice etc).




Shane
12/19/2020 at 16:25:42 EST
If you guys read our website you'd understand more about what we're doing here. This is only
Phase 1, it's part of the big picture, yes, but i
t's only Phase 1 ..




Shane
12/19/2020 at 16:24:13 EST
this is for income tax, not land prices




Shane
12/19/2020 at 16:01:04 EST
@frommy97 will take over nd let me know any critical things - thank you Thomas




Shane
12/19/2020 at 16:00:37 EST
I am already behind in 3 meetings now due to this little blow up, I need to get back to work




Shane
12/19/2020 at 16:00:14 EST
exactly




Shane
12/19/2020 at 16:00:03 EST
we are dealing with those issues progressively. Basically we cannot confirm the land they wanted
to buy unless it was user to user - so if it
was to buy new land we will offer credit or a paypal refund (if the problem was our side)
​Shane
 12/19/2020 at 15:59:17 EST
not in game, I guess when you check out. But you need to consider local tax laws I am not an
accountant




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:58:01 EST
yes




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:57:56 EST
yes




Shane

12/19/2020 at 15:57:42 EST
exactly




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:57:01 EST
Regarding LAND INCOME - this will OCCUR DAILY NOW! I was writing an announcement but got
side tracked on THIS!




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:54:38 EST
you're trying to reword this now, to summarise what I told you, there are many people waiting in
line, we are dealing with them because we
don't have enough staff to handle the volume as we went viral much earlier than expected. When I
told you that you continued to argue an
d escalate - to summarise I told you to wait in line but you wanted to be served before others and
we're not operating that way




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:51:53 EST
I agree too and @frommy97 follows the rules of the channel very strictly. I have never banned
anyone nor deleted a comment. It's ok to dis
cuss whether this is legit or not, but to call something a 'scam' or 'con' without any solid evidence
starts to become a bit different ..




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:45:20 EST
"I'm not trying to cause problems" - throws accusations, claims, documentation, personal attacks ..




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:41:25 EST
@frommy97 please check




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:40:43 EST
not sure why I need to share this here, I will not be doing it again and I have removed the name of
the player receiving it. @deanshizzle w
e will be reviewing your comments and now a further delay will be put on your withdrawal until we
get time to do that. In the mean time if y
ou just want a refund let me know we can do that too.
Screenshot_2020-12-20_TransferWise_-_Account.png
54.97KB




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:33:17 EST
that will help us, thank you !
​Shane
 12/19/2020 at 15:31:51 EST
 you're not playing but the rules, you're demanding to be paid before other people who have also
 been waiting and making threats. There a
 re other people with issues we need to fix and many other things we need to do. Will be reviewing
 your account when I have a chance




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:29:13 EST
give me your account name, I will revert all properties and refund you via PayPal if you like ?




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:27:43 EST
they were reduced to like 2% based on our FB marketing expert recommendation - we did want to
stop them completely - but I don't see w
hy we need to explain each internal operation right now .. sorry, I need to get onto other tasks
urgently.




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:23:38 EST
you're part of something going viral. We have said our team is too small we didn't expect this so
early on. We thought it would be months a
way - how could we guess this would happen? We could have had a massive team paying
massive salaries then nothing happen for mont
hs, we've seen the results now and we're trying to cope with it. I am sorry it's taking time but it's
not only you, we have many issues to fix f
or many other people also. You are welcome to document as you wish, but we're just asking to
please be patient, we are trying to catch up
. We have sent numerous payments bank to bank via TransferWise and will continue to do so as
we catch up on issues. Just hold off buyin
g any more land, we cannot really drop everything to handle one problem so you can feel more
confident so you can be sure you want to b
uy more land, just take the situation for what it is right now and maybe wait a little while if you don't
feel comfortable




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:19:19 EST
no problem, just make a request and we will get to it




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:18:56 EST
I have to get back to work - please post questions in the relevant channels and someone will
review / document




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:18:26 EST
bank account atm
Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:18:08 EST
why would we say that publicly?




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:17:52 EST
no problem, just sit tight, don';t feel pressure to buy any land




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:17:03 EST
AML etc.. we need to review each withdrawal. And there are also some people trying to abuse our
system, so we are reviewing that also




Shane
12/19/2020 at 15:16:00 EST
this will be some time away, it's a legal issue and we have many other tasks to focus on right now
​Shane
 12/19/2020 at 15:11:16 EST
 if it states on the map details then yes - check details




Shane
12/19/2020 at 14:59:59 EST
Thanks for being patient everyone! We have just rolled out another big improvement that fixed a
key issue we've been working on. This wa
s not as simple as auto-scaling which is why it took a few days, was very complicated. The website
should be a lot faster now, we are still
working on some other updates and still try to use sparingly when possible, but at least it should
be a lot more usable now than it has been
the past few days. What a MISSION! Thank you for your patience and support!




Shane
12/19/2020 at 02:49:07 EST
wow .. I finally caught up to the end. Not sure I am going to be able to read through those every
day! I fixed an issue on the servers about
an hour ago, it's running a lot better due to this but if it slows down again it will be because there is
another bigger wave coming from some
where. I am hoping we get some space but with this fix so I / we can get back to focusing on other
progressive stuff. We are working on so
mething that should definitely improve the issue a lot should be ready in 2-3 days. Thanks for all
the support guys and please, those who a
re waiting for help on something let me get some sleep and I'll be back!




Shane
12/19/2020 at 02:45:42 EST
I am missing my sleep to be here lol .. love you guys too!




Shane
12/19/2020 at 02:44:18 EST
we are doing this to achieve something that will change the world, that is the big picture here




Shane
12/19/2020 at 02:41:49 EST
yes user to user trading
Shane
12/19/2020 at 02:25:29 EST
we already use docker, terraform, ec2, alb, ecs and so on .. as I said, it's not a simple solution and
we were building a solution that would
work but it went viral earlier than we thought and we got stuck




Shane
12/19/2020 at 02:23:49 EST
it would take a long time to explain, our systems are complicated for things to come. In any case,
we were 3-4 days off upgrading our infra
and codebase to autoscale then it went viral so we need to work with current infra or shut it down
.. we're trying to keep it up for everyone
with all services. I just fixed a big issue about 1 hour ago made a big improvement, then thought I
would drop in here .. and there are like 1
million messages .. still working on it but should have improved more than before now




Shane
12/19/2020 at 02:20:06 EST
sometimes things are not that simple ..




Shane
12/19/2020 at 02:16:28 EST
well said @Wolfgang
​Shane
 12/19/2020 at 02:14:51 EST
 very perceptive ! I had a 26hr shift yesterday, 4 hrs sleep and coming up to 18hr shift today




Shane
12/19/2020 at 02:13:58 EST
I don't think I will have any down time over the break




Shane
12/19/2020 at 01:58:14 EST
yes if someone has time please save it LOL




Shane
12/19/2020 at 01:55:15 EST
@Pluto I don't usually get involved with haters too much but if you don't understand how big the
gaming / virtual good market is then you'r
e not very up to date.. you talk like you're pretty savvy with investments etc, if you took a moment
to research you'd realise this isn't a stupi
d / pointless idea at all .. I mean what could this guy have bought in real like with the land he
bought in this fake game ... ? https://www.dail
ymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1330552/Jon-Jacobs-sells-virtual-nightclub-Club-Neverdie-online-
Entropia-game-400k.html Now I am not s
aying that is where we're going any time soon, but it's a goal that we want to make everything
inside Earth 2 be built with value .. you're ent
itled to your opinion but we are here working hard building something for the future and something
we strongly believe in.. and in addition t
o that there are many clear indications that what we are doing is far from 'crazy' or 'dumb' or a
'scam' .. I mean if this were a scam it would
have to be the most stupid scam ever .. we'd just set something simple, create a lot of FOMO and
pressure to buy then disappear .. but ins
tead we have been very open showing who we are and where we come from .. anyway, that's my
2 cents for now I have already written to
o much when I just don't have the time
Shane
12/19/2020 at 01:47:42 EST
no pressure to get involved @Pluto , but do hang around please




Shane
12/19/2020 at 01:46:27 EST
maybe someone else beat you to buying it.. if someone buys is a split second before you there is
an error. Please list in bugs if you have ti
me or think it's something else




Shane
12/19/2020 at 01:45:34 EST
cannot wait until you see our promo video!




Shane

12/19/2020 at 01:43:39 EST
that's an awesome story! I know we sent $1500 to one person in today's list




Shane
12/19/2020 at 01:42:40 EST
many people have already withdrawn, we just need to do it manually right now so it's taking a
while with us all being on other tasks. We will
have a financial controller helping us with the process soon.




Shane
12/19/2020 at 01:40:03 EST
take your time, no need to get involved. Wait until you feel comfortable ..




Shane
​ 12/19/2020 at 01:37:17 EST
 go to Profile, Edit, Uncheck tick box for MarketPlace




Shane
12/19/2020 at 01:35:51 EST
don't rush in. Just wait and see before buying tiles no pressure there is a long road ahead




Shane
12/19/2020 at 01:34:23 EST
at present we don't even have time to sleep .. it will come when things settle down. We have
talked about it internally




Shane
12/18/2020 at 10:37:21 EST
We’re still receiving multiple new purchases per minute I have no idea how people are even
achieving this!




Shane
12/18/2020 at 10:36:26 EST
Will come in and try to review other comments soon everyone. I’m just busy on a large number of
critical tasks right now. Stay off the webs
ite if you can we’re trying to improve it further




Shane
12/18/2020 at 10:35:23 EST
@frommy97 could you please create this when you have a moment ?




Shane
12/17/2020 at 16:47:28 EST
it's hard right now but just enjoy the ride I guess .. have to look at it in the most positive sense. I
am simply running on adrenaline right now




Shane
12/17/2020 at 16:46:20 EST
worry then happy please lol




Shane
12/17/2020 at 16:44:18 EST
our FB ads already went semi viral so we were keeping things low key, then someone randomly
posted a video on TikTok and it went viral .
. why couldn't this have happened next week? Had my 26hr straight shift then 4 hrs of nightmares
of servers crashing to wake up and find
our updates are just allowing more people in to crash the server .. working on it now, please keep
off the website if you can




Shane
12/17/2020 at 09:36:17 EST
is back up - sorry guys




Shane
12/17/2020 at 08:32:23 EST
yes right. These purchases may be reviewed so please refrain from exploiting this bug or you may
risk the property being refunded. We will
be reviewing them in the future as we have time.




Shane
12/17/2020 at 05:24:12 EST
don't say that! I am 22 hrs straight now and want to sleep without having nightmares of e2 servers
crashing!
​Shane
 12/17/2020 at 05:22:14 EST
 we'll be adding more once things settle down




Shane
12/17/2020 at 05:22:03 EST
we recently added a new filter that should allow you to search by property price from low to high




Shane
12/17/2020 at 04:20:50 EST
wow - how did we end up there?!




Shane
12/17/2020 at 04:20:25 EST
we have considered that, but we're trying to keep it up and can you imagine the backlash if we did
that? There are already so many doubte
rs out there ..




Shane
12/17/2020 at 04:19:51 EST
we are definitely aiming for Earth 2 to be a platform amongst many other things




Shane
12/17/2020 at 04:19:01 EST
yes we have plans to roll out in phases and will be on multiple platforms




Shane
12/17/2020 at 04:18:37 EST
I think someone is making viral videos again .. we're getting smashed. Every time we pull a new
solution it turns up a notch




Shane
12/17/2020 at 04:09:13 EST
yeah I can't wait because this is not what Earth 2 is supposed to be about!




Shane
12/17/2020 at 04:01:50 EST
this is only Phase 1 - if income tax was the big picture here then I wouldn't even be working on
this. This has very little to do with the vision
, in fact I didn't even expect people to care much about land classes but I can understand it's one
of the main things to focus on right now ..




Shane
12/17/2020 at 03:58:26 EST
let's stop making it go viral for a couple days to let the dev team recover !!




Shane
12/16/2020 at 21:17:16 EST
there are numerous announcements, some of little features, milestones etc. but the larger one is
the video we are going to release of the
Earth 2 terrain system and how that looks. It will be the first time everyone gets to look inside
Earth 2 and will set the benchmark for what
we are actually aiming for. We are not sure what's going to happen after we release that but we're
holding off until things are stable and re
ady




Shane
12/16/2020 at 18:07:49 EST
https://discord.com/channels/775031874603057182/775031874603057186/788172323131228181
might be one area, not sure @claxximu
s​




Shane
12/16/2020 at 18:07:02 EST
I think i have commented on this above or in different channels a couple of times that's probably
why I didn't reply again as it's hard to find t
he last reply I made and copy paste it




Shane
12/16/2020 at 18:06:22 EST
people have been reinvesting




Shane
12/16/2020 at 18:05:54 EST
it's tied per country at the moment, this answer is also in the FAQ I believe




Shane
12/16/2020 at 18:05:20 EST
we have released all details on this we are prepared to release so far on the website and FAQ




Shane
12/16/2020 at 18:04:37 EST
sorry I just pop in now and then, I apologise if I missed something




Shane
12/16/2020 at 18:02:34 EST
it's coming @claxximus - we will be making announcements soon of next phases. There is no
point of Earth 2 simply buying and selling la
nd, this is Phase 1 of many and Phase 1 is only the beginning ..




Shane
12/16/2020 at 18:01:23 EST
Another thing I will just point out very high level, we have never pushed anyone to buy land, we
always tell them to wait because we're aw
are people like to see more details. We didn't realise it would take off this fast and we are playing
catch up right now. If this was just a 'cash
grab' or whatever other people are calling it out there, I think we would be more focused on telling
people to buy ASAP, trying to cause FO
MO etc. We've never done that and I have told my team to never allude to anything along those
lines even if they personally believe strongl
y in the project. We have been internally reviewed twice by PayPal (I mean do you think they
wouldn't notice a new start up suddenly recei
ving thousands of transactions in a short period of time) and there are numerous other key points, I
just don't have time to sit down and thi
nk them through right now and we're trying to slow down more than speed up.




Shane
12/16/2020 at 17:56:14 EST
@FrancisErdman thanks for the comment. I am genuinely extremely busy right now handling a
number of issues but I wanted to let you kn
ow I have seen your comment and will respond when I have the time to give it the answer it
deserves. What I will say for now is just stop at
$20, there is no need to put any more in and wait to see what we come out with later, stopping will
in fact help us as we're trying not to gro
w so quickly right now. Thanks very much for your interest though it's great that we caught your
attention and please be patient, there will b
e more to come




Shane
12/16/2020 at 15:35:36 EST
there are definitely more details coming. We are actually holding back some announcements at
present until we can stabilise our servers a
nd finish our scaling upgrade. No pressure to get involved now, just sit back and watch a little
further if you're unsure




Shane
​ 12/16/2020 at 15:07:27 EST
 really glad you understand this, some people get really impatient and I do totally understand why,
 but we are working on something so big
 here and we don't want to jeopardise anything long term for the sake of cutting corners short term.
 Thanks for understanding!




Shane
12/16/2020 at 15:02:24 EST
it could be a week at present but we are trying to make it sooner. There is a big backlog but more
importantly we are making sure we're fol
lowing AML guidelines, we don't want to break any laws right now for the sake of speeding
something up. I completely understand it would
be frustrating but there is no point with us rushing something and breaking a potential law for the
sake of paying out a few hundred dollars
a little earlier. We are committed to paying out credits for people who want to sell theirs, there is
no issue there, and we have already paid
out to people - we are just making sure we're following procedures. We are also trying to work out
a deal with PayPal, if that happens (as
we had originally planned) then this whole process will speed up a lot!




Shane
12/16/2020 at 14:51:26 EST
there is a process at the moment and we are backlogged so I won't say it's quick and easy right
now




Shane
12/16/2020 at 14:50:58 EST
we have some of the top lawyers in Australia advising us on what we are doing, so far so good.
But we are aware of it and obviously we w
ant to follow and comply with rules as Earth 2 is extremely important to all of us




Shane
12/16/2020 at 14:08:02 EST
it's being looked into for sure




Shane
12/16/2020 at 14:07:20 EST
it is definitely




Shane
12/16/2020 at 14:06:03 EST
thank you, we honestly have the best community ever .. talk about it between the team all the time




Shane
12/16/2020 at 14:05:18 EST
yeah we are trying not to pause things because we know momentum is a good thing, Earth 2
needs to be known around the world. It's just
a bit sooner (well a lot) than we had anticipated




Shane
12/16/2020 at 14:02:20 EST
we know we need to expand




Shane
12/16/2020 at 14:02:18 EST
I have been in and out of interviews for key roles




Shane
12/16/2020 at 14:02:03 EST
yes we are, bad time of year thoughcoming into Christmas
​Shane
 12/16/2020 at 14:00:01 EST
 not sure whether to laugh or cry right now - such mixed emotions!




Shane
12/16/2020 at 13:59:46 EST
oh my goodness lol




Shane
12/16/2020 at 13:57:49 EST
is why we are delaying the video demo of the terrain system .. I am literally too scared to release it
right now LOL




Shane
12/16/2020 at 13:57:07 EST
so also a good idea to use Insights for now, not profile if possible please




Shane
12/16/2020 at 13:56:52 EST
you can go to Insights also - there is an option there too




Shane
12/16/2020 at 13:56:23 EST
sorry for this all, we are working as fast as we can. If you can reduce accessing the site for non
urgent matters it will all help until we can g
et it under control.




Shane
12/16/2020 at 13:55:15 EST
may be too many properties and the servers are being hammered. We're working on solutions for
the server and the pagination for the pro
file (next week)




Shane
12/16/2020 at 13:54:33 EST
these are due to user to user trades I think - just like any market




Shane
12/16/2020 at 13:54:04 EST
please try not to exploit that bug for now, it's also killing the servers!
Shane
12/15/2020 at 20:16:33 EST
I have to get back to it, 4hrs sleep in 2 days now !




Shane
12/15/2020 at 20:16:20 EST
they were about 4 days away now this has happened, so we need to implement a different system
quickly to buy more time




Shane
12/15/2020 at 20:15:47 EST
It has increased 4-5x today suddenly, we have no idea what dropped it was nothing we did we
have been trying to keep low key until we h
ad things in place
​Shane
 12/15/2020 at 20:14:59 EST
 It is great but we were hoping it would happen a little later!




Shane
12/15/2020 at 20:13:41 EST
we have some things planned for next year




Shane
12/15/2020 at 20:13:11 EST
Please check <#775034906656636948> for an important update - basically the website is slow,
there may be some outages and if you'd li
ke to help please limit usage on the website if it's not super necessary!




Shane
12/15/2020 at 19:26:54 EST
no that is not true




Shane
12/15/2020 at 08:23:07 EST
thanks for confirming




Shane
12/15/2020 at 08:22:59 EST
yes should definitely be fixed




Shane
12/15/2020 at 08:11:16 EST
most welcome and sorry you had to come chasing this!




Shane
12/15/2020 at 08:07:21 EST
sorry we will chase up the facebook message immediately
Shane
12/15/2020 at 03:37:22 EST
welcome! Lots of details to review in all the channels!




Shane
12/15/2020 at 03:08:35 EST
oh and there is another update live on production too but I need to make a more official
announcement on that




Shane
12/15/2020 at 03:07:58 EST
When I get time later today will organise a more official update but just letting you all know: 1
Referral codes are now interchangeable so y
ou can replace then at will on each new purchase 2 The "Chrome" bug that hit the world (even hit
eBay!) has been fixed on our system no
w so Chrome users should not have any further issues logging in




Shane
12/15/2020 at 03:04:37 EST
trying to give me a heart attack @sarge_nl ?
​Shane
 12/14/2020 at 18:22:17 EST
 @cxg_pick there are bits and pieces of information being discussed regularly if you have time to
 browse through the chat history. We are h
 eavily focused on some big updates we're trying to prepare for roll out so there may often be some
 time between announcements, sorry a
 bout that - I know you are just really eager to hear more! We are also working on a document we
 are hopeful to release soon that will talk a
 little about what we're planning to announce early next year amongst other things. Best places to
 check are here and also Facebook if you
 follow us on there too. Hang in there!




Shane
12/14/2020 at 17:54:59 EST
I might even tune in the for that!




Shane
12/14/2020 at 17:36:03 EST
Well I think butt is probably the most etched in my mind right now




Shane
12/14/2020 at 17:35:25 EST
yes, rarity is a thing whatever it is in life! That is all I will say there (this is not suggesting that
country will have any other advantages, just st
ating that us as humans are drawn towards things with value or rarity often ..)




Shane
12/14/2020 at 17:33:08 EST
Such touching words, and I am sure I speak for each team member when I say the pleasure is all
ours! I would say on a personal note, the
usernames I see each day throughout this period are going to be etched into my mind - I cannot
thank you all enough for the support you h
ave been giving us. There will definitely be things you can do to help moving forward I am sure,
you're already doing it (reporting bugs, ma
king suggestions etc). But if you'd really like to help with something right now and if you like what
we're doing then please take a moment t
o hit up our Facebook page up and leave us a review. I wasn't really thinking about it too much
then I noticed someone gave a bad review
with some frustrating false accusations so if anyone has time to write a few words on a review for
us it would be greatly appreciated! Really
demoralising to be working so hard on something so big with so much potential only to have some
people just make assumptions without r
esearching or asking us and to then go on and spread it around as if they know it to be factual ...
https://www.facebook.com/pg/earth2gam
e/reviews/




Shane
12/14/2020 at 17:21:25 EST
we do read almost every comment so many suggestions are getting pooled and we do review
them from time to time




Shane
12/14/2020 at 16:29:34 EST
Completely agree. I have never experienced such excitement working on a project before. Trust
me, as a team 'we' cannot wait for what's c
oming!




Shane
12/14/2020 at 16:27:49 EST
We are actively working on an announcement very soon though which will contain some over all
details and a few time frames




Shane
12/14/2020 at 16:26:56 EST
There are also multiple facets to Phase 2 which may be rolled out in segments alone




Shane
12/14/2020 at 16:22:37 EST
> don't give away too many clues @Wolfgang
​Shane
 12/14/2020 at 16:21:52 EST
 Insight of things to come




Shane
12/14/2020 at 16:20:50 EST
one reason to make sure you have the right email address!




Shane
12/14/2020 at 16:20:23 EST
well we have to account for that too lol




Shane
12/14/2020 at 16:20:01 EST
Some people just buy and forget, so we need to also factor this profile of user into the game play
moving forward (we are aware there will
be these type of users)




Shane
12/14/2020 at 16:19:06 EST
Those are three early buyers. They are basically sitting on what they bought from what I
understand.




Shane
12/14/2020 at 11:28:06 EST
Thank you I received that - very cool!




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:50:55 EST
Ok nice! I will make sure I track that down and we'll get back to you. Thanks very much for the
token of support!




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:46:29 EST
@benl324 Nathaniel just told me about this so I had to come looking for it. This is insane!




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:29:54 EST
ok, just add a new burden to my shoulders there - thank you




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:29:19 EST
Yeah you just need to let them be more or less, there are always those type of people. They are
the same people who come back any buy
for $10 .. (don't quote me on this price I am only pointing out the nature of some individuals like
that)




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:22:32 EST
yes, and influencer promotions, YT, Reddit .. there are many places we have not started yet. This
will likely get some massive mainstream
media focus at some time so we are trying to prepare for that potential storm right now !




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:21:08 EST
yes by all means, people have been doing that and we realise we cannot stop it - people do not
need to buy land, but if they believe in wha
​t we are doing it would be great for them to sign up or follow us!




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:17:34 EST
@benl324 no we have not advertised on any other platform yes, this is all from a small test
campaign on Facebook! We are actually trying
to hold back at the moment for the reason I mentioned above




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:16:04 EST
yes I really need to get back to work, I have a pile of tasks in front of my as always, hopefully will
look back and laugh one day but I'm mor
e or less working 20-24 hour shifts with 6 hour naps between these days. The whole team is
working really hard with long hours, we are all
super committed to this and love the support!
Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:14:55 EST
no we are planning to release that earlier if possible. I think I have mentioned before that we are
holding back a little because we are not q
uite sure what will happen .. we want to make sure our servers are 100% ready to take a lot of
traffic just 'in case'. The became more appa
rent in a meeting the other day when a 'senior member' in our group saw still images of what we
have created so far and said it was a lot m
ore advanced than what he had expected, it made us reconsider a few things with regards to
when we release that video (don't read into th
at too much! The terrain system video we will show will show where we are up to and give you all
an idea of what we are striving for movin
g forward I believe, game play will still be some time away but it will 100% set a clear foundation
and, I think, an amazing starting point! Ph
ases rolled out between now and then will be building toward this future and allow game play to
begin before playing inside this terrain is r
eady !)




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:07:43 EST
yes this is exactly right @butt - we have never told people to buy land and always told them to hold
off if they need to see more. And we ha
ve never promoted FOMO or anything of the like. People can certainly sit back and decide until
they see what's next and that's probably on
e reason why the prices started so low, just to get it out there and let people know what we are
doing.




Shane
12/14/2020 at 10:03:39 EST
We have a planned release of additional information regarding Phases 2 and 3 in early January.
We are certainly being mindful of what we
release and when but after it begins to flow out there will definitely be more future scope for
everyone to consider! Wolfgang is working on t
he incredibly important game design aspect of Earth 2, all I can say is that his talent in this area is
outstanding, the documentation he has f
illed out creating Earth 2 is obviously internal right now but I can say it is a masterpiece in work! I
believe he is working in a closed room in
DND mode!




Shane
12/14/2020 at 09:58:23 EST
yes and no. People can buy anything as an investment, collectables, rare items, properties .. more
recently virtual goods are trending. I do
n't think the terminology is out of place here.




Shane
12/13/2020 at 23:13:37 EST
yes there are reasons for this. We have added restrictions on how far you can travel from
selecting a tile but it will still be set as whatever t
he first tile selected is. The reason for this is a commercial one as fetching real time data on every
single tile address before purchase woul
d be a massive overhead (and somewhat unnecessary )




Shane
12/13/2020 at 23:12:05 EST
Oh nice! This is you! That was actually making it's way through our team chat the past 12 hours as
our Facebook marketing expert shared
it!
​Shane
 12/13/2020 at 22:18:30 EST
sorry, that is listed but complicated to look into that so it may take a little while to get some
additional details on top of what I had already r
esponded with. Thanks for your patience (also good if you can list it under bugs or account
support so we can keep track easier)




Shane
12/13/2020 at 20:53:57 EST
ok - please list in bugs and will review there




Shane
12/13/2020 at 20:52:39 EST
which picture? (sorry am extremely busy on tasks right now but I just noticed this)




Shane
12/13/2020 at 12:32:19 EST
We want Earth 2 to be a very creative place and I also mentioned that we are watching user
behaviour very carefully, internally we are con
sidering this with some flexibility but please be cautious that it doesn't mean just because their is
an external trend we will always try to ada
pt all plans to that trend. We will always strive to be very balanced.




Shane
12/13/2020 at 12:30:04 EST
there is a comment I wrote up above there somewhere (long comment) that addresses this
question. We have never said anything will only
be reliant on where people are in the real world at all, we have only mentioned we are trying to
build some aspects like that into the game
while maintaining a balance




Shane
12/13/2020 at 11:29:16 EST
That's what we are aiming for! There are a lot of things happening very quickly in the background
at the moment outside of the public eye.
We cannot share every detail as you can appreciate but we will definitely release more information
as soon as we can as we appreciate th
e support and love we have received and we know you guys are also so keen to find out!




Shane
12/13/2020 at 11:24:59 EST
are the land classes the same? There are a number of things that may cause this to occur but it
should be balanced out. PM me your profil
e URL when you have a chance and I'll take a look later




Shane
12/13/2020 at 11:23:36 EST
yes, VR is certainly part of our end goal but we are by no means restricting Earth 2 to only VR for
now, it is more of a platform that will hav
e gaming elements of which VR (and more) are long term goals




Shane
12/13/2020 at 11:20:53 EST
there is a purpose for it but we have not released details yet and we have not fully committed to
that purpose. I should probably hide that
for now - thanks for remind me
Shane
12/12/2020 at 20:38:32 EST
that would be feedback for @frommy97 (please check). Please let Thomas know what you're
thinking (I believe he made it so people can c
hoose multiple badges / roles)
​Shane
 12/12/2020 at 19:26:48 EST
 You have no idea how much I want to reply to this comment with something .. that involves Easter
 Eggs .. but I can't I have to be very
 careful what I say!




Shane
12/12/2020 at 18:37:57 EST
guessing the same is going to happen to classes 2 and 3 overt time




Shane
12/12/2020 at 12:59:53 EST
if you want to remove a property from the Market Place 1 - Go to your profile, select "For Sale" as
the filter to find the property faster 2 - Pr
ess Edit / Sell 3 - Uncheck "Advertise in MarketPlace" and Save We will be looking ways to make
this more obvious, sorry for the confusio
n.




Shane
12/12/2020 at 12:44:40 EST

thanks for the feedback there! Will definitely look into this!




Shane
12/12/2020 at 11:24:14 EST
Oh yes, I can see you chose your words very carefully, I was just posting that comment to focus on
the fact you had chosen your words
carefully so others can learn to keep an eye out for that! Oh nice! Well we are using Django / Java
and a variety of other languages and tec
h in our stack right now (as you may have noticed!) and any feedback on UX would always be
welcomed!




Shane
12/12/2020 at 11:17:06 EST
Thank you for the comment @hosterjack . We are very mindful of what we have released
publically but as @hosterjack has noted here wo
rds like "might" and "could" - please try to not to apply too many hardcore strategies until we
release something on an official level (Terrafo
rm / Resources detailed information expected early Jan 2021 (next month)). There will be details
and from that you will be able to consider
strategies. I would also point out that for now we are balancing everything very carefully, there is a
lot of time and thought going into this
from extremely experienced game designers and our senior management, we realise there is
limited information at present and while we a
re definitely observing user buy trends, it does not mean we can create a system that will be built
for all of those trends (especially in the s
hort term). In addition to this there are going to be a number of different facets to Earth 2 (as many
are already identifying, sometimes I wo
nder who is reading our notes, some obvious and some I will say are a lot less obvious - there are
things only 1 or 2 people in the world kn
ow right now for example), as there are so many applications that we want to focus on and deliver
over time to make Earth 2 thrive on ma
ny different levels and in many different ways. There are very exciting things coming for sure and I
am certain you will all enjoy the next ph
ases but I am just making this comment to keep speculation within reason at present. Thanks
again for all of your support and interest!
Shane
12/12/2020 at 06:46:26 EST
that's awesome @null ! Congratulations!




Shane
12/12/2020 at 06:10:34 EST
this is not true, it's not tied to cities at all. Could you please let me know where you learned that
because I am not aware any of our answer
s or details on the website would state that and want to fix it in case it's a mistake. No need to be
disappointed there.




Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:55:59 EST
Thank you Thomas! Very special to hear you say that! Sorry everyone, I have a moutain of work in
front of me and team members waiting
on responses so I will have to bow out for now. Hope you all have a great day!
​Shane
 12/11/2020 at 15:54:30 EST
 This is a future goal, we are not saying it will happen over night and there is not just one simple
 answer. We will be releasing a demo video
 of our Earth 2 terrain system soon that will demonstrate our capabilities, but it's a long term goal. I
 suggest reading https://earth2.io/ideolog
 y on the website and some other bits of information as it gives a little detail about our approach to
 all of this

Shane

12/11/2020 at 15:52:14 EST
please ping me your profile in private chat and please try to report in <#775034265544949770> if
possible.

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:50:54 EST
These answers will come in good time. Please see my above comment. We want to build a strong
emphasis on co-operation too within Earth 2, especially with the building concept (which will be released in later phases).

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:49:44 EST
Oh thank you very much my friend, that really means a lot to me and touches my heart

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:49:04 EST
This is a massive ambitious project and I realise everyone is extremely excited to receive more
details, and we are also extremely excited t
o share those details! There will be quite a big update coming early January regarding Phase 2
and 3 and it will include quite a lot of information to help people thoroughly understand the next steps. @Wolfgang is working long hours
creating, what I could only say is an absolute
masterpiece, around the game play, design, tech trees and many other aspects, it's incredible!
Early January you can expect some of these details and we are also talking about 'touching' on the potential PvP elements and where things
will lead to next in that area. We are working on so many things in parallel right now, there are about 9 or 10 different internal projects
running and we are growing on those. There
are going to be new updates to the website next week (we plan for) but regarding game play and
Phase 2 and 3 those will be released with 'confidence' early next year.
Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:44:39 EST
yes our team is expanding very fast in the background here, trust me! But we are working on key
roles that will help Earth 2 achieve it's goals, CM will come more though, @frommy97 is doing a great job so far and we have had some
amazing volunteers from the community helping to moderate - so appreciative

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:31:51 EST
I will chase this up but it may be lost a bit in translation here. The plan is to cap at just over 50
billion for now, we may allow more in the future but 50 billion is a BIG number.. our systems have created more than that so there are already
tiles for every location, just depends which are bought

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:29:38 EST
We use 10x10 as a minimum, when people realise they have a little more land is obviously better
than realising it's less, so it's like a standard fallback we use

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:27:44 EST
I will leave the comments up as only fair others see those too, however, please don't anticipate it
will be our next move

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:20:01 EST
​Ok, I only said that in passing! It's not intended to be any type of suggestion or strategy It's so
 difficult to write things these days without thinking it over a hundred times, our whole team is getting used to it right now

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:18:20 EST
South Korea and Japan are also massive markets too, really curious to see what transpires

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:17:33 EST
correct, we are looking at options amongst other things. We are drawing closer to releasing our
demo video of the Earth 2 terrain system and we're not quite sure what is going to happen when people see that. There is no other system in
the world that performs with the detail w
e have created at the sheer size and scale we have created, so at present we're spending a lot of
time on bolstering our whole server infra
structure to prevent the whole system from crashing if / when it does go viral. That's why the video
is a little delayed right now

Shane
12/11/2020 at 15:14:50 EST
right! Our website is being translated to different Asian languages at present actually

Shane
12/10/2020 at 16:26:09 EST
Withdrawal is not so easy. PayPal do not allow this process to be automated and we need to
follow compliance rules ourself - Earth 2 is to
o big a project with too much on the line to risk breaking small rules in order for people to get
faster withdrawals at the moment. We have l
egal experts that advise us on exactly what we need to do and we will be following those
guidelines as we explore faster and more
automated systems. Sorry if it takes a while at present but we'd prefer to keep Earth 2 protected
(as a project for everyone that's supporting us) than to rush a payment through. Thanks for understanding!

Shane
12/10/2020 at 16:23:44 EST
Yeah people pop up from no where on Facebook, they see the post, don't bother reading
anything, call it a scam and disappear. Probably t
he same people that label every other good thing a scam, we're just focusing on what we're doing
and we're not forcing anyone to be involved, in fact we suggest just wait and watch if you're even 1% unsure.

Shane
12/10/2020 at 11:30:58 EST
Yes, the video will be showing the foundation of the Earth 2 terrain system and where we are up
to with it. It will display the quality we are
working with and the scale - these two are very important because it's extremely difficult to make
massive terrains work with quality on a large scale. When we release it there will be more detailed notes about what we are doing, but the
goal is to show the sheer size and scale
plus the detail we are displaying at that scale. On a personal note, I escape every day just flying
around inside it .. just in love with in fact ..

Shane
12/10/2020 at 02:33:02 EST
Thanks for the comment. I think we have alluded to this in some of our FAQ answers and there
are also hints with the promo video we have that this will be 'one aspect' in the future of Earth 2 - has always been part of the plan The beauty
of Earth 2 is we are not restricted to
one platform or one type of game play, we are building multiple elements and it's going to be really
fun and interesting to see it come together!

Shane
12/09/2020 at 13:55:59 EST
it is tied to new land buys in that country, not existing

Shane
12/09/2020 at 09:54:27 EST
Just popping in here and catching up high level. At the moment you're right, there is not an option
to merge or subdivide - our systems have been built to handle massive data (imagine the size of the world?) but we are looking at
 'subdivision' some early next year. I will also be looking at merging too if it's a big request and we don't have other more urgent matters at hand.
 We have some other plans for upgrades to
 property ownership as well that will flow out first half of next year too or sooner

Shane
12/07/2020 at 15:53:42 EST
don't quote me on this one, but I believe there are, for example, 980m in America, around 30
million in urbanised areas. Is something interesting to consider when you think about how much fiat currency there is circulating around the
world in any given country ..
Shane
12/07/2020 at 14:21:42 EST
(additionally we do treat IP very seriously and we have a specific team that works on IP for us and
protection. As we grow there will be mor
e patents lodged and various IP put in place. This is important to protect our interest too)

Shane
12/07/2020 at 14:19:12 EST
Thank you for your question. This is not negative at all and is certainly something we are very
aware of. This question has certainly been a
sked before and we have answered, I will try to find where that answer is (I thought it would have
been listed in the FAQ but I can't see it there). It is often the case that new and ambitious projects like this are avoided by larger
corporations - it's probably cheaper and safer for the
m to sit back and see what happens then potentially get involved directly with us as opposed to
pursuing their own agenda. I do have a
more detailed answer somewhere and when I have a moment I will try to chase it up but at the
end of the day you have two options, you ca
n sit there worrying about what might happen or you can make it happen .. we clearly believe
strongly in what are doing and have already
outlaid a massive amount of capital to get to where we are now and we plan to continue outlaying
more capital to achieve our goals!

Shane
12/07/2020 at 04:18:32 EST
I just want to point out when I say "some economic advantages" I simply mean because the area
may be famous or popular on earth or have a lot of foot traffic, therefore it may be a point that more people want to check out.

Shane
12/07/2020 at 04:16:13 EST
You're welcome. I am not sure we would have answered in that way, there has been information
floating around that is not completely acc
urate, we do review when we can and we actually take it on board. But our core concept has
always been a virtual world recreated but it's
users, there is not a great deal of fun in simply remaking this world - we want Earth 2 to be
different. We are definitely looking at options that make key areas more special though, but at the end of the day people or Earth 2 will decide
where they want to go and what they want to do.

Shane
12/07/2020 at 04:05:31 EST
Thanks for the question Chris. We have not stated anywhere that monuments and significant
buildings will be carried over. Such areas will
still have some economic advantages over other areas, but those will be fair and will not affect the
rights of other land being built on. We a
re very careful to balance things as fair as possible and as new details emerge this will become
more apparent.

Shane
12/07/2020 at 04:02:44 EST
This update is in our pipeline as we are aware some users would prefer it to update daily. We are
hoping it will be within the next two week
s (as we are focusing on other updates parallel)

Shane
12/06/2020 at 16:59:13 EST
Looks like that might be international territory (which is territory not clearly recorded on our
system). Many users have been buying it up as it started at $0.01 per tile

​Shane
 12/06/2020 at 16:31:14 EST
 Yes, that is right. We are only in Phase 1 and we are building a game and a platform. The game
 element will be released on PC initially an
 d we will look at other consoles where possible and that will involve play from the PC / Console.
 Long term we will be aiming for VR and other emerging technologies. Our web app will also continue with great importance and have certain
 abilities to influence the game, it's goin
 g to be really, really interesting let's just say!




Shane
12/06/2020 at 15:14:53 EST
haha what timing!




Shane
12/06/2020 at 12:30:05 EST
That's awesome!




Shane
12/06/2020 at 12:19:24 EST
Hi nomad. In the scheme of things you're very early! Have you been following Earth 2 for long ?




Shane
12/06/2020 at 03:50:15 EST
Thanks for your question. This is definitely something on the cards and from time to time we may
also promote buy back options for particular reasons but these are also very early days and our main marketing awareness campaigns are
yet to begin, as we grow buy backs will
not really mean a lot. We are also to release some news there is a mass buy / sell feature in the
pipeline right now, we hope to release so
me of it before Christmas.




Shane
12/06/2020 at 02:26:50 EST
Hello @sweetmeadow , welcome!




Shane
12/05/2020 at 23:58:58 EST
Hey guys! Welcome! Not late at all Rogue priest we have only just made it public, in fact you seem
to be perhaps the second to join from our team so I'd say very early
