The Earth 2 White Paper

1

INTRODUCTION

WHAT IS EARTH 2?

Earth 2 is a concept for a second virtual Earth; a metaverse, between virtual and physical reality in which real-world geolocations
on a sectioned map correspond to geographically accurate digital virtual environments inside a 1:1 scale virtual Earth. These
environments currently have the ability to detect, mine and produce digital assets, can be bought , owned and sold, and - in the
near future interactable and playable inside a 3D world.
This White Paper will provide a light introduction to Earth, some of our current features and some of the future plans for our
platform.

WHAT WE ARE BUILDING
We are building the world’s geolocational metaverse; an evolving creation of a second virtual Earth that bridges a clear, familiar
and relatable link between physical and virtual reality. This innovative approach to the metaverse establishes a direct correlation
between locations in the real-world, to locations in the metaverse and our plan is to create a pristine 1:1 scale interactive 3D Earth
based on this concept which will give people a place to participate in and build an alternate reality around our physical existence.

INITIAL LAUNCH AND PROOF OF CONCEPT
Earth 2 first launched as a proof of concept in November 2020 by releasing “the Grid”, a mathematically calculated digitalised
layer of land our team developed and delivered via our website. The Grid covered every continent, sea, country, state, city and
suburb on our planet and provided people with a way to begin reserving their land inside the metaverse. Earth 2 has since grown
to become the outright largest virtual land registry in the world.

CREATING PURPOSE AND VALUE INSIDE A VIRTUAL EARTH
Each piece of virtual land will maintain an irrefutable link back to the physical world through its unique, corresponding
geolocational attribute. Similar to our physical world, people can reserve their own land inside this second Earth and begin
mining E-ther which is then transformable into a high utility, disinflationary, ERC-20 token called Essence. Depending on the
location and tier type, land inside Earth 2 also has the ability to detect and mine up to 32 different types of resources. These
resources will provide the initial gateway for people to craft and create technology to interact with and rebuild the world the way
they wish.
Therefore, the ability to build, create or produce something inside Earth 2 will be the result of either Player time, ownership,
management, trading, acquisition, effort, or a mixture of all 6. This approach will support a justifiable extrinsic value on
everything that is Player mined or produced within Earth 2 setting the foundation for a true Earth size EcoSim.

THE METAVERSE
If you’re unfamiliar with the Metaverse concept, you may be familiar with the general ideology of a Metaverse after watching
films like The Matrix or Ready Player 1 or reading books such as Snow Crash, however, we note that nobody really knows what the
actual Metaverse will look like just yet, or how it will start, we just know it’s coming and we’re committed to start building early.
It is impossible to ignore the fact that the Metaverse space is an exciting one, with a growing number of reasons as to why
reputable companies such as JP Morgan are claiming it will become a trillion dollar market opportunity in yearly revenues over
the next decade, but at this early stage the metaverse space is convoluted and is fast becoming a difficult area for people to
understand, navigate and most importantly, discover.
Earth 2 brings an instant familiarity to the concept of an alternate digital reality becoming a great starting point for anyone
looking for the immersive, escaping gift of the Metaverse.
2

WHAT IS EARTH 2? CONTINUED

THIS WILL BE A LONG TERM PROJECT
We have spent the past 3 years building during a bear market into what will be a long-term multi-year project focused on
creating a 1:1 scale second virtual Earth with humanmade artifacts such as cities, roads and other infrastructure programmatically
removed. Effectively resetting our planet, the result will be a pristine Earth going back to a time it was yet untouched by humans,
beckoning a new start for virtual representations of ourselves to explore, play, own, survive, craft, mine, trade, build, battle,
experience, learn, socialise, escape to and much more.

AMBITION
There is no doubt that Earth 2 is an extremely ambitious project and that we have many large tasks ahead of us, however, since
launching 3 years ago and in the face of very heavy public scepticism, our team has been rapidly prototyping and developing the
early foundations for this alternate reality inside a 1:1 scale 3D Earth.

RECENT BREAKTHROUGHS
We recently confirmed significant breakthroughs showcasing a public demo of our seamless 1:1 scale 3D Earth to some of the
biggest game developers in the world and proving we have in fact made incredible progress with the creation of this ‘impossible
world’. Defying sceptics who doubted its feasibility, this showcasing took place at none other than the biggest global gaming
event of the year, GDC 2024, San Francisco, front and centre of the exhibition between the very central Meta and Unity stands.

SELF SUFFICIENT
Since launching the concept in November, 2020, Earth 2’s business model has been 100% self-sufficient, we have not raised any
outside capital from VCs, although we had many opportunities to do so. Not all VC capital is bad, but it is well known that such
captial puts pressure on making returns for the fund before the platform.
All of the development and progress we have made has been supported by our business model. This is an important fact as it
allows us to be in better control of the way we run our project and the opportunities we can then provide back to our Players
and those supporting the Token. We avoided any official ICOs or ITOs instead prioritising development of the platform, therefore,
when the Essence token launches, the vast majority of tokens will be those that have been mined by Players from their land.

APPROACH
Instead of closing our doors with the goal to release more robust product in 5 to 10 years time, our approach to building
the Earth 2 Metaverse has been to develop and release core features via our website as we make progress with the 3D world
development. Our plan is to ship a very early version of this 3D world (E2V1) and get it into the hands of our community
providing not only something for people to do as we continue to develop, but help us remain agile in development and pivot
feature focus based on real use examples.

AR AND VR
Though E2V1 will first be released on PC, we have do have long term goals to include Augmented Reality elements and support
VR. We have tested early versions of VR and the results are encouraging. Earth 2 is now close to entering a new phase of our
journey with the E2V1 pre-alpha and an externally tradeable utility token. With this intro out of the way, read on for more specific
details.
This document cannot and will not include all evolving facets of Earth 2 as many in our community will note, but rather provide a
high level overview of summarised key points that are good for people new to the Earth 2 concept to understand.

3

4

ALL OF THESE NUMBERS ACHIEVED

WITHOUT THE

RELEASE OF OUR UPCOMING FLAGSHIP PRODUCT

5

WHAT IS E2V1?

Earth 2 Version 1 (E2V1) is the starting point for Earth 2’s flagship product, a seamless, real time, 510,072,000 km2 1:1 scale
persistent virtual planet Earth that accurately reflects real world topology and geographical locations. To achieve this goal, Earth
2 is developing the Earth 2 Engine, a proprietary engine that sits on top of Unity 3D. The Earth 2 Engine is being designed to
deliver high-performance, massive-scale 64-bit real-time rendering and physics in both close up and distant views.

MASSIVE SCALE OPEN WORLD TERRAIN RENDERING
Our proprietary Terrain Renderer is one of the key subsystems of the Earth 2 Engine and is responsible for the real-time, semiphotorealistic terrain and enivironment rendering that takes place on a massive scale delivering an immersive experience along
with extraordinary view distances.
It is exceptionally optimised and employs innovative techniques to deliver significantly improved performance compared to
traditional rendering methods. The view range and close-up detail are virtually limitless, as the terrain can effectively be of any
size. Moreover, the system automatically adjusts the terrain mesh’s detail level when moving at high speeds, ensuring faster
rendering and streaming without over-compromising visual quality resulting in a more seamless and realistic overall experience.

ACCURACY ON A GLOBAL SCALE
The Earth 2 Engine Terrain Renderer uses elevation data from an extensive variety of public and private sector sources worldwide
to create highly detailed and accurate Digital Elevation Models, representing the Earth’s topographic surface. The elevation data
undergoes refinement and validation processes using various algorithms to ensure consistency with real-world topological
features, including rivers, mountains, shorelines, and canyons. For example, the data has been adjusted to match heights at water
levels and even has the capability to ensure the correct direction of flowing streams and rivers. The height map data is used to
derive a lot of other useful geometric information such as surface detail, steepness, and curvature.
Unlike traditional approaches that utilise satellite imagery, Earth 2 opts for synthesising satellite data in real-time using a
parametric and procedural approach. This method avoids the limitations and drawbacks associated with satellite images, such as
low quality, large file sizes, and artifacts caused by lighting, shadows, and man-made structures..

BIOME GENERATION SYSTEM
The Earth 2 Engine Biome Generation System has been developed to allow for the simulation of various biomes in different
geographical areas on a global scale. Much like the real world, biomes are generally spread over large regions based on climate
patterns, vegetation, wildlife, and soil types. The Earth 2 Engine Biome Generation System has been designed in such a way that
it can be programmatically applied to vast areas to match the appearance of satellite images or otherwise reseached details of a
biome in those areas.
Each biome includes unique cominbation sets of 3D models and textures which spawn based on a list of internal variables
detected with the terrain data. The rules for each biome are currently manually created and applied by our team in some, but not
all, areas of the world. This approach which will remain the case during the testing phases but may switch in the future to a more
automated system .
To enhance their natural appearance, biomes incorporate clustered fractal randomization when placing contents such as
sub-biomes and transition areas. Biomes encompass parameters for elements like snow, forest, foliage, and grass, specifying
coverage, height or color, as well as probabilities and types of dynamic events such as NPC movement, animal behavior, storms,
and natural disasters.

6

WHAT IS E2V1? CONTINUED
BIOME GENERATION SYSTEM (CONT’D)
The early versions of the Earth 2 Engine Biome Generation System will support around 250 biome variations, a number that will set
a strong foundation for a realistic and diverse world. The Earth 2 Engine automatically accounts for seamless transitions between
biomes so that they blend naturally at points where they overlap. Some example biomes you may expect to find inside E2V1 are
Arid Deserts, Volcanic, Flooded Grasslands, Tropical Savanna, Subtropical Rainforest, Alpine Forest, Savanas, Temperate Broadleaf,
Mangrove Forest, Arctic Tundra, Temperate Steppe, Polar Ice Caps and many others.

A PLAYABLE WORLD
The open world we are building is not only being developed to look at, but will also be playable, meaning Players can spawn an
avatar and interact with the world, anywhere on the 510,072,000 km2 Earth’s surface.

MULTIPLAYER SYSTEM
Interaction with other people inside E2V1 is also important. In 2023, we internally developed the first version of our own multiplayer
system, customised to work on massive open world terrain. For example, the system we developed would allow one Player to be in
London while another is in New York persistently on the same server instance.
With regards to scaling concurrent users our internal multiplayer system faced the same limitations that all multiplayer games face
nowadays, however, we are pushing the boundaries in this regard by working with emerging multiplayer solution providers who have
demonstrated impressive prototypes supporting hundreds or thousands of CCUs on a single sharded server.

IS ALL OF THIS REAL?
Shortly after we launched Earth 2 and as our project went viral, we received a lot of public scepticism around whether this
geographically accurate 510,072,000 km2 world was possible. Although we released numerous footage via our YouTube channel,
displaying the progress we were making on creating this world, many sceptics still believed the footage was pre-rendered or
otherwise fake.

GAME DEVELOPERS CONFERENCE (GDC) 2024, SAN FRANCISCO, USA
The put any doubt to rest, Earth 2 officially demonstrated the E2V1 build live at the biggest global gaming conference in the world,
GDC. Located in the busiest area of the exposition section between the mega booths of Meta and Unity, E2V1 was live and publicly
available over 3 days for anyone walking past to try out and validate the 1:1 scale Earth.
There were multiple senior members from Unity stop by to look at the tech, visiting the pristine terrain of the cities they live in
and each of which were extremely impressed, questioning how we managed to build such a world at scale but also performant. A
number of other studios stopped by, some asking if we would be willing to license the technology for them to build games inside of.
Game producers, Web3 companies, indie devs stopped by and had incredibly positive compliments.
Many developers who have been involved with or focused on building open worlds also stopped by to ask questions about how we
managed to create such a build. Geography lovers spent time zooming around the world, remarking on the accurancy of the topology
on a global scale. Almost everyone was impressed by the seamless transitioning and freedom of movement at such scale.
The reality is our team took a strong stance toward only releasing actual in-engine footage of Earth 2 shortly after we launched,
going against the trend of games typically using high quality pre-rendered cinematic videos to hype and promote a version of
their product that doesn’t really exist. We can confirm that apart from the very first promotional inception video we released in
November, 2020 - every video we have released since has been real-time in game footage of the actual E2V1 product.
7

WHAT IS LAND & THE
ECOSIM?
Much like its significance in the physical world, land on Earth 2 holds paramount importance within the metaverse serving as the
primary source of utility for resources, not only for sustaining development and life, but also providing forms of entertainment for
it inside Earth 2.
The first opportunity the outside world had at reserving land was when we released our proof of concept in November 2020 by
launching “the Grid”, a mathematically calculated digitalised layer of land we developed which was accessible via our website and
covered every continent, sea, country, state, city and suburb on our planet. The Grid allowed people to begin reserving their land
inside the metaverse in the form of tiles.
Since then, people have been able to reserve land inside Earth 2 using a credit card by purchasing E$ (E$1 = $1USD). People have
been able to trade their land and other digital items for E$ and the ability to withdraw those E$ back to their credit card or bank
account.

IT ALL COMES FROM THE LAND - THE KING OF UTILITY
When Earth 2 first launched our key focus was to continue adding utility and purpose to land. Three years later and nothing has
changed, land is not only used to mine E-ther, Essence, Jewels and Resources, but will also be required to build, host mini-games,
advertise, store, Raid from, provide PvP experiences, e-commerce and much more.
When considered, almost any product or experience in the physical world is only made possible due to some form of attribution
back to the land or sea of this world, and like the physical world, our goal is to replicate similar attributions back to land in the
metaverse in order to provide actual intrinsic value to products and experiences developed in Earth 2 as a result of the work
required to achieve such products and experiences.
There will be a supply cap of 250 million T1 and T2 tiles with 225 million being directly purchasable as new land and 25 million T2
tile positions reserved for T3 upgrades. There will be an unlimited supply for T3 tiles so new Players can always build in new areas
and have an opportunity to attract uncollected E-ther.

THE EARTH 2 ECOSIM
The EcoSim, short for Economic Simulator, starts with land but ends with everything else. It is the core means of producing
anything inside of Earth 2 and the driving force behind objects and items having an initial, inherent intrinsic value.
In addition to the other utility land provides, it can also detect Resources in the form of Occurence Units via the Mentar and
Prospeecting Cydroids. These Occurence Units can then be use to produce Raw Material via an Essence staking mechanism which
in turn opens the door to building the initial EcoSim buildings, producing building blocks and advancing technology to build or
create more advanced buildings or items.

VALUE THROUGH WORK
If you look around you in the real world you will see buildings, vehicles, objects and all types of possessions that have been
created as a result of work and resources. In most cases there is a complex process behind creating these things, and although it
will be easier to produce things inside of Earth 2 when compared to the real world, the premise remains that work and resources
being required as core components to produce an item gives it initial value.
Therefore, inside of Earth 2, almost every item you see will have either been discovered, crafted or a byproduct of the EcoSim,
meaning Players cannot just click their fingers for something to appear, but that there has been some level of discovery, work
or effort put into creating that object - whatever it may be. All of these items will be tradeable between Players for either E$
(pegged USD) or Essence.
8

E-THER

WHAT IS E-THER?
E-ther is an unstable and somewhat mysterious matter that
evaporates from owned land inside Earth 2. Theory has it that
when land is claimed and ownership is recorded in the binary
code of that land, the land itself commits to improving its
own environment to the will of the Player who owns it. E-ther
cannot be captured or stored naturally, but can be detected and
identified by the Mentar linked to that land.
Once detected, the Mentar can keep the E-ther stable for 24
hours, however, if the E-ther is not claimed within this period by
the Player it becomes unstable and raidable by other Players with
the correct type of Cydroid.

E-THER TRANSFORMATION
After the E-ther is collected by the Mentar it can then be used to
either synthesise life or transform into Essence. Once collected,
it cannot be redistributed into its particle form and therefore
cannot be recollected.

E-THER STORAGE
For now, an ulimited amount of E-ther can be stored within an
ulimited amount of networked Mentars, that is Mentars with the
same owner, for an unlimited amount of time. However, over time
this rule will be adjusted, especially the time factor E-ther can be
stored for.
In the future, Players will need to transform their E-ther into
Essence within a specific period of time.

E-THER BASE SPAWN RATE
The E-ther base spawn rate is the rate T2 land spawns E-ther. This
is important to remember when Base Spawn Rate multipliers are
referenced.

9

WHAT IS ESSENCE?
Essence will be a high utility, disinflationary, ERC-20 Utility
Token on the Ethereum Blockchain. It is crafted through the
transformation of mined E-ther by the Mentar. Essence is
arguably the most coveted commodity inside of Earth 2, largely
due to the core utility it will provide.

ESSENCE

WHAT BIGGER UTILITY THAN POWER?
Essence will be the core commodity required to power almost
everything inside of Earth 2. People will need it to craft Power
Cells, which will in turn be needed to power things such as :
• buildings
• Cydroids
• vehicles
• cities
• devices
• and more
Using Essence to power objects is what we refer to as direct
staking, that is staking into an object that can then be used for
alternative purposes providing opportunities for the Player to gain
more via the utlity of the object staked.
Players will also need to stake Essence in order to generate Raw
Materials opening the gateway to build and trade. Additional
Essence may be used to supercharge production, in which case
the supercharged amount will subject to a burn mechanism by
which 50% of the Essence used to supercharge is burned.
We are also excited to confirm that at some point in the future
Essence may also used to trade items on the platform, much like
Players use E$ today.

ADAPTIVE VALUE OF ESSENCE
Many aspiring web3 projects make the mistake of tying token
quantity to essential products, items or commodities which
are prerequisites for users to have any meaningful experience
or hands-on involvement with their platform. This approach
results in hyper inflated prices that may make for great headlines
when super early token holders decide to splurge, but can
subsequently result in blocking the scalability and growth of the
project due to the establishment of exorbitant and unrealistic
prices that new users face when they want to get involved or
become part of its ecosystem
Our approach with Essence is to lock in some values, especially
for core facets of the EcoSim such as powering buildings and
objects. This will mean tethering an internal measurement unit
to a locked fiat figure which can be remunerated using Essence
resulting in an adaptable token value system that slides, not only
rewarding Players holding Essence if the externally traded price
of Essence increases, but incentivising Players actively holding
to build and utilise their dynamically empowered Essence inside
Earth 2 on the back of such growth.

MORE DETAILS
For more details about Essence, please see the Tokenomics
section.

10

JEWELS

WHAT ARE JEWELS?
Jewels are a digital commodity that can sometimes spawn and
be detected on Player-owned land. These spawned Jewels can be
manually collected and have existing utility now, and in various
areas of the growing EcoSim. There are currently 8 basic Jewel
types that may spawn on a Player’s property. These Jewels can
then be crafted into higher Tier 2 or Tier 3 Jewels. Each Jewel
provides different benefits to the Player and can help the Player
in different areas within Earth 2, depending on what activities
and goals the Player wants to focus on.
To date, approximately 69,200,000 base level Tier 1 Jewels
have been collected from Player owned properties. The total
capped number of discoverable Tier 1 Jewels will be capped at
150,000,000 with Jewel detection and collection on Player owned
properties will be capped at 125,000,000 and the remaining
25,000,000 being discoverable or earnable inside E2V1.

JEWEL CRAFTING
Jewels can also be crafted with a mixture of Essence and Jewel
Shards to create higher quality Jewels that have greater boost
effects. During the Jewel quality improvement process, there is
a slim, completely random possibility of crafting a Brilliant Jewel
which has even higher boosts but is extremely rare.

JEWEL UTILITY
Jewels can be used in many areas of Earth 2 as boosts or buffs on
objects. Currently they can be slotted into T1 and T2 land Mentars
to increase E-ther detection and boost resource OU production.
They can also be slotted into Cydroids to improve base specs.

JEWEL TRADING
Players are able to trade their Jewels for E$ in a secondary
market called the Bazaar. Jewels tend to sell from anywhere
between E$0.04 to E$50.00 each. However, Brilliant Jewels sell for
hundreds if not thousands of dollars with the highest sale to date
being E$8,500 (or $8,500 USD) for a single Brilliant Jewel.
Currently, Players can slot Jewels into their properties’ Mentars
to increase E-ther detection or speed up building times. Soon
they will also be able to slot Jewels into their Cydroids to receive
special Raiding boosts and unlock other abilities. Jewels will also
play a big role in Resource discovery and replication, and within
the EcoSim system in general.

11

UPGRADING LAND TIERS

UPGRADING LAND

Land owners will have the ability to upgrade their land via the
Earth 2 Land Upgrade System. This system requires either Essence
alone or Essence plus a Red, Yellow, Green or Blue energy type
which is then used to infuse your land with a sudden burst of
power through the Mentar resulting in a permanent upgrade of
that land.

HOW DOES IT WORK?
The amount of Essence or Energy required to upgrade land can
fluctuate and is determined by two major factors: the popularity
or demand for land within a country or territory which is
reflected by the New Land Price (NLP), and the external trade
price of Essence. These two main factors should be taken into
consideration when upgrading your land in order to determine
whether it is a good time for you to upgrade, or not.

SPECIAL CAMPAIGN
The Land Upgrade System has a special campaign built in for
T2 land owners. The first 25,000 thousand T2 to T1 tile upgrades
in each of the 5 methods (Essence alone, Essence + Red Energy,
Essence + Yellow Energy, Essence + Blue energy and Essence +
Green energy) in each country will receive a permanent boosted
base E-ther spawn for what will be a Tier 1 Special property.
The boosted E-ther spawn rate on a Tier 1 Special property will 5x
the base E-ther spawn rate, higher than a standard T1 but still less
than a T1 + EDC.

IMPACT ON NEW LAND PRICES
The Land Upgrade system will set in motion unprecedented
and dynamic changes to the NLP of every Tier of land in Earth
2. As tiles transition from a lower tier to a higher one, the total
number of tiles in each tier will change following each upgrade.
This can and will affect the rise and fall of NLPs for each Tier
within the same territory (T3) and country (T1 and T2) as tiles are
upgraded from one Tier to another. The constant fluctuations of
NLPs for each Tier, as well as the external trade price of Essence
will provide an array of opportunities related to land ownership,
including adding another dimension to player-to-player property
trading.
More specific information on Land Upgrades will be released in
an upcoming article.

ESSENCE BURN RATE
The Essence burn rate on land upgrades will be 50-50 meaning
50% of the Essence used to upgrade land will be permanently
burned and the other 50% will sent to the Earth 2 Treasury.

12

CYDROIDS

WHAT ARE CYDROIDS?
Cydroids are cybernetic beings created through the Mentar using
Essence. First Gen of Cydroids are designed with a primary ability
for Raiding, but can acquire Prospecting abilities when fused with
a Prospecting Resources Jewel. Second Gen Cydroids will be able
to help with prospecting, but not have the ability to Raid E-ther.
Cydroids can only be built on Tier 1 and Tier 2 lands hosted by
Mentars, as Tier 3 lands, hosted by T3 SEEDs, are incapable of
directly building Cydroids. Only 5,000,000 First Gen Cydroids may
ever be built.

HOW ARE CYDROIDS POWERED?
The process of creating a First Gen Cydroid is fixed to 2.5 Essence
largely due to the fact First Gen Cydroids have the ability to
recoup their cost via succesful Raids. Once a Cydroid is built, it
needs to be powered in order to function. A First Gen Cydroid
requires 5 fully charged Essence units which are injected into a
Power Cell before the Cydroid can be used.
These 5 Essence units can be 100% recouped at any time if
removed in a fully charged state. This process of using Essence to
power the First Gen Cydroid in order to use it for potential gain
provides a classic example of how Essence can be staked inside
Earth 2 for benefit to the Player.

CYDROIDS AND JEWELS
Specific jewels can be temporarily or permanently slotted into
Cydroids to enhance or unlock certain gameplay abilities. In
particular, Prospecting Jewels can be permanently fused to a
Cydroid, granting access to their prospecting abilities.
Each Cydroid has its own unique type of Prospecting Jewel, so
experimentation may be necessary to find the compatible Jewel.

PROSPECTING CYDROIDS
Prospecting, a crucial aspect of resource gathering in the Ecosim,
involves using Cydroids to decode and collect specific resources.
This ability is unlocked when a Cydroid is fused with the
appropriate Prospecting Jewel for a specific type of Resource.
The right jewel not only enables prospecting but may also
enhance the Cydroid’s capabilities based on the jewel’s quality
and tier.

13

WHAT IS RAIDING?

RAIDING

Raiding in Earth 2 Raiding is a strategic gameplay feature that
allows players to utilise their First Gen Cydroids to conduct
operations on nearby properties with the objective of gaining
E-ther, a valuable resource within Earth 2, from other Players.

HOW DOES IT WORK?
At a high level, the Raiding system is designed to be easy to play
but challenging to master. Players will build Cydroids on their
land properties, which are then sent out to conduct Raids on
nearby properties. The purpose of these Raids is to collect E-ther
that has become unstable due to not being collected within a 24hour period after it spawned on other Player properties.
The success of the Raid depends on the Cydroid’s capabilities, the
surrounding competition of fellow Raiders and the amount of
unstable E-ther available on the raided property.

E-THER AND ESSENCE
Raiding rewards strategic thinking and careful management. At
its core, it revolves around a balanced utilization of Essence.
Essence not only provides operational capabilities for
Cydroids but also unlocks the potential for increased Essence
accumulation through Raiding. Players invest Essence to create
Essence-based Cydroids, which are then deployed to gain more
E-ther. In addition to this, while the Essence required to form
the Cydroid’s physical form itself is unattainable, The Essence
allocated as the absorbent material for Power Cells is.
This cycle exemplifies the resource management that will be
required in other areas of Earth 2. Players will need to carefully
decide when to allocate Essence to build and power Cydroids,
and when to withdraw Essence from Power Cells for other
operations.

14

CIVILIANS

WHAT ARE CIVILIANS?
Civilians are semi-sentient beings synthesised by Players and
employed to automate the operation of various Raiding tasks,
removing the need for the Player to carry out each task manually.
Civilians are essential for Players with a large portfolio of properties
to manage all their tasks efficiently. However, Civilians may also be
used by Players who are wanting to reduce their manual task-load
in general.
There are currently 3 types of Civilians, the E-ther Reckoner, the
Cydroid Technician and the Raid Commander, all of which have a
maximum supply of 500,000 each and assist with automating the
Raiding process on properties they reside on.

SUSTENANCE FOR CIVILIANS
Civilians also introduced the very first sustenance system inside
Earth 2. Players were able to keep their Civilians happy, sustained,
and focused on their tasks by feeding them Red Energy (a type
of energy that can be gained via conflict-type activities such as
executing successful raids on other Player’s properties).
Red Energy is instantly transferable via a Player’s Mentar network,
meaning a Player can use their global Red Energy balance to
sustain their Civilians on any of their properties around the world.
This means that Red Energy earned in Africa can be used to
sustain a Player’s Civilians in America, and vice versa.
If a Player does not have enough Red Energy to sustain their First
Edition Civilians, then those Civilians who miss out on Red Energy
will cease working and begin wandering in the wilderness,
looking for food or another source to sustain them to stay alive.
For now, a Player will have the ability to convince their wandering
Civilians to return automatically to their property and tasks once
they have enough Red Energy to lure them back.
First Edition Civilians will require one Red Energy unit per
week to keep them loyal and happy. The unit of Red Energy is
automatically distributed to each Civilian, once a week based on
the day they received their first sustenance of Red Energy. For
example, if you synthesise a Civilian on a Monday, you will need
to replenish that Civilian with Red Energy every Monday. If a
Civilian that was usually replenished on a Monday wandered
into the wilderness and was lured back on a Wednesday, the new
weekly sustenance cycle would occur on a Wednesday.

CIVILIANS XP
The first XP system was also implemented inside Earth 2 at
the same time Civilians were released. The Civilians XP system
allows Players to level up their Civilians, boosting productivity
and obtaining new skills through hands-on experience. The first
Civilians, which assists Players to execute their Raiding activities,
gains XP from successful Raids when E-ther is dispensed on that
property. Initially, every 0.01 E-ther dispensed will equate to 1 XP.
It takes a team effort between the Civilians to Charge, Raid and
Dispense, therefore, the XP is evenly split between however many
Civilians Players have dedicated to their Raiding system for each
specific property.

15

E2V1 MINI GAMES

During our recent E2V1 Pre-Alpha Youtube premier and again at GDC 2024, San Francisco, we demonstrated not only a massive,
open, 510,072,000 km2 planet Earth but also confirmation of our own multiplayer system including hints at what some of Earth
2’s first mini-games might look like. Our approach to the first mini-games inside Earth 2 is to allow them to take place on Player
owned properties and to make them simple, quick, competitive and fun.

E-THER ROYALE
E-ther Royale is a prototype game we are testing which will operate on Player owned properties of 4 tiles or larger. The concept
is simple, multiple Players spawn on a property scattered with E-ther particles. The larger the property, the more Players that can
spawn. Each Player starts at a slow-motion walking speed, but each time a Player collects an E-ther particle, their avatar speeds
up a little. Once the first particle is collected, a cool down timer begins and the Player needs to collect another E-ther particle
before the timer expires otherwise they will reduce in speed and lose an E-ther particle for each level of speed they reduce until
they return to zero again.
There are a lot of additional rules to the game, but the objective is simple - collect as many E-ther particles as you can until there
are no particles remaining. The Player with the most E-ther particles gets to keep them!

MULTIPLAYER
During 2023 the Earth 2 team successfully implemented our own multiplayer system. This was the system showcased in our E2V1
Pre-Alpha invite video. While our long term goals are naturally focused on working with specialised partners to push the limits
on concurrent players interacting on a single sharder server, in the short term our own multiplayer system would be sufficient
enough to provide mini-game experiences to our player base.

LOBBY SYSTEM
Irrespective of which multiplayer option is being utilised, Earth 2 intends to implement a Lobby system in which Players can enter
via close proximity to a Mentar then search and wait for mini-games to start. Once a mini-game is confirmed, the Player’s avatar
will teleport to that location and the game will commence.

UPCOMING MECHANICS
As demonstrated at GDC 2024, the Earth 2 team is also working on additional game mechanics such as the rifle blaster, rocket
launchers and grenades not to mention wheeled vehicles, flying machines and boats. These game controllers and mechanics will
allow us to slowly expand the type of mini-games we can provide to property owners over time.

ALLOWING PLAYERS TO BUILD
Our longer term goal is not only to provide Earth 2 built mini-games for land owners and Players to enjoy, but for the mechanics
of those mini-games to slowly accrue allowing Earth 2 to open up access to the various mechanics to Players and land owners
have the opportunity to create their own unique games and experiences.

16

WHAT IS BROADCASTING?

BROADCASTING

Broadcasting is a concept in which ads are broadcasted to Players
waiting to join mini-games or in game experiences. This forms an
integral part of our long term vision in creating a self sustaining
Metaverse which provides a direct, or at least indirect, way of
benefiting those who take part in or spend time on the platform.

HOW DOES IT WORK?
Broadcasting introduces the very first Utility for Resource
Occurrence Units. Players will be able to use their Occurence
Units to craft Broadcasting Devices inside the Mentar or Seed to
unlock the ability to broadcast ads to Players who are waiting in
the lobby before starting a mini-game.

BROADCASTER TYPES
Broadcasting Devices will have different levels of efficiency
depending on the Discovery Tier level of the Resource
Occurrence Units used to craft the device. The higher the
Discovery Tier level the more efficient it is at broadcasting and
the less Essence required to power the device and deliver the ads.

POWER AND CONSUMPTION
As with most objects inside Earth 2, Broadcasting Devices will
need to be powered by an Essence powered power cell in order
to function.
Once fully powered, the Broadcasting Device will require
additional loaded Essence at a set ratio depending on its level
of efficiency. Essence is only consumed based on the fiat value
profit being made on the ad deilvered.
For example, a D1 crafted Broadcasting Device might return
a 25% bonus on consumption, meaning that if $1.00 worth of
Essence was consumed, at least $1.25 of ad revenue would have
been generated meaning the owner would receive $1.25 in
withdrawable credit. However, a D9 Broadcasting Device might
generate 200% on the value of any Essence consumed.

ESSENCE BURN
50% of all Essence consumed during the Broadcasting process
will be burned and 50% will be sent to the Treasury.

RELATIONSHIP
Land Owners who utilise this service will require a specific type
of relationship setup with Earth 2. Effectively Earth 2 is hosting
your 3D digital space and is providing you credits for ad revenue
generated on inside your space.

17

SKINS

SKINS AND THE METAVERSE
Being able to change your appearance with skins inside a game
is important, it helps reflect the way you feel or provides you with
something you enjoy looking at or becoming while playing. It’s
not just what we think, in fact gaming skins alone is now over a
$50 Billion industry.
The ability to alter your virtual avatar is even more important
inside the Metaverse where Players will ultimately wish to take on
completely different appearances and personas in a virtual world
not bound to a single genre.

EARTH 2 CREATING ITS OWN IP
There are many contributing factors that will make up the
Metaverse and wearable cosmetics will certainly form one big
part of it all. We believe it is important for a contending platform
in the Metaverse space to display the capability of creating
its own appealing IP, effectively designing and developing a
platform other IP brands want to be part of over time.
Each Earth 2 skin starts from concept art which is reviewed
and travels through numerous iterations before final approval.
Once approved, it is then passed to our 3D modelling team for
sculpting into high-poly then into low-poly with further reviews
and strict adherence to our pipeline protocols throughout the
process. When the low-poly model is finished, the 3D team
finalises the model with UV mapping and texture baking, running
through their own QA processes during this stage.
Once the entire 3D-sculpted model is approved, the models enter
the skinning, rigging and weight painting process before being
passed on to our animation team for further testing with various
animations involving another set of QA such as minimising
clipping and identifying any other potential flaws in the model.
The model then proceeds through the final process of approval
with a game developer to ensure it passes all final tests and is
absolutely game-ready for E2V1.

THE BLUEPRINT SYSTEM
The Earth 2 Blueprint system will almost always require the
Player to have the base item first before they can apply the
skin. For example, if the Player has an avatar skin, they will first
need a base avatar, or living Earth 2 being, to apply the skin to.
In the case of a full avatar skin, this would be a case of having a
synthesised avatar to apply the skin to, you would not need base
versions of all the various clothing items for a full avatar skin.
Many base items will be discovered, crafted or earned via various
game play or a byproduct of the EcoSim inside Earth 2, meaning
the Player first needs to do something in order to acquire the
base item. Players will almost always be able to sell skins, but not
always base items, however, base items which are a byproduct
from the EcoSim will have a higher chance of being tradeable.
Skins will be tradeable between Players for E$ and Essence.
18

EPLS

OTHER FEATURES

Players will ultimately need a way to find areas or places inside
Earth 2. The EPL (Earth 2 Property Locator) serves as a type of
URL which will allow Players to teleport directly to those specific
properties.
EPLs, like a website URL, will become very important to Players
searching for specific experiences or visiting specific properties
inside the Earth 2 Metaverse.

THE BAZAAR
The Bazaar is a massive trading hub for various digital items
inside Earth 2. At present it provides a place for Players to buy
and sell Jewels, Cydroids, Civilians and more on a secondary
market for E$ (E$1 = $1USD) and Essence in the future.

HOLOBUILDINGS
The Holobuilding Editor is a refined design tool that allows
Players to create custom buildings and structures which can
either be built on properties, or sold in the Bazaar.
This feature was primary developed to allow Players to explore
and express their creativity. however, Holobuildings also have a
level of utility in that Holobduildings that are built on properties
have the ability to store Resource Occurrence Units for future
Resource replication.

RESOURCE VALIDATION SYSTEM
Even with the processing of what is probably the most accurate
resource location data in the world, there were always going
to be edge cases where our system missed a resource. For this
purpose we created the Earth 2 Player Resource Validation system
which is a 2 part system whereby Players are able to submit a
claim for a particular Resource they believe exists in their land.
Originally developed as a way for Players to ensure they do not
miss out on Resource distribution whilst encouraging community
collaboration, the E2PRV system has since been refined to focus
more on rewarding Players who participate in the system.

U2U HOLOBUILDING TRADING SYSTEM
HoloBlueprints can be bought and sold in the Bazaar, as either
Holobuildings (built form) or Blueprints (design plans). This
trading system is highly sophisticated and enables creative
Players to share and profit from their talent, creativity, and time.
From a Player-to-Player trading perspective, the Bazaar displays
all the details relevant to the sale such as the type (Holobuilding
or Blueprint), original designer, current seller, creation date, as
well as the listed price, built size, number of vertices and overall
volume of a HoloBlueprint.
The U2U Holobuilding Trading system is so advanced it can
track joint ownership of combined digital assets and accurately
distributed royalties for every ongoing sale on the secondary
market. This system can be reused for almost any type of digital
item inside of Earth 2, whether user generated or not.

19

OTHER FEATURES CONTINUED

KYC SYSTEM
Compliance and customer support have always been a high
priority and were critical areas we needed to get right for our
business and customers. To protect all users, especially the end
user, a Player wanting to sell any property or digital items on
Earth 2 is required to be verified via a KYC process.
This is not only an industry standard procedure to integrate
KYC processes for compliance requirements, but ensures we are
taking all necessary steps to protect our Players and maintain a
safe platform that promotes Player-to-Player activities.
Earth 2 has a full time team who maintain compliance checks
which clearly represents our underlying commitment to safety
and security on the Earth 2 platform.

WITHDRAWAL SYSTEM
Inside Earth 2, Players can either purchase a property directly
with their credit card, crypto wallet, or account balance in the
form of E$ (E$1 = $1USD), which can be topped up by the user
beforehand.
Concurrent to streamlined crediting of E$ to an Earth 2 account,
Earth 2 developed a purpose-built withdrawal system to facilitate
the withdrawal of Players’ E$ directly to fiat currency.
This robust, high quality system handles payouts in numerous
currencies, and is built with high security, never having been
breached to date.
We employ multiple senior accountants full time to oversee the
process and to provide support to the few customers who have
problems withdrawing using our refined, automated withdrawal
system.
To date our system withdrawal system has processed over
$22,000,000 USD in Player withdrawals.

CUSTOMER SUPPORT SYSTEM
For general Customer Service, we developed our own internal
procedures and implemented a customised complex yet efficient
version of Zendesk. We have a ticket numbering system which
tracks the start and end of every ticket and for complicated or
specialised cases. We employ in house full time staff based in
Sydney, Australia and Europe to provide further assistance.

20

OTHER FEATURES CONTINUED
THE MARKETPLACE
Since launching in November, 2020, Players have had the opportunity to purchase virtual real estate directly from Earth 2 and
leverage that real estate for various purposes within Earth 2, including activities such as Player-to-Player trading via a secondary
market purely based on fiat currency.
This system is a fully fledged automated Virtual Real Estate solution, is highly complex to build and functions at scale with high
level transactions and over 120 million correctly processed land positions spanning across the entire globe. It also has the ability
to control transfer fees.

MARKETPLACE MVP
Our first MVP included a foundational system that allowed Players to purchase, own, sell and bid on properties. Ownership of
virtual land within Earth 2 is a core component of establishing a truly Player-focused metaverse, which currently facilitates:
Players purchasing land directly from Earth 2, with protection from race conditions (i.e two people trying to buy the same land at
the same time) via instant assignment of ownership;
Players accessing the complete description of all the properties they own, including details of:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

The unique Property Deed,
Owner of Property,
Land Tier,
Land Class,
Player-built assets on theproperty (i.e Mentar, Holobuildings),
Property size,
Location of the Property with the precise coordinates to the location of every tile within the Property,
Satellite Image of the location of the Property,
Property Address,
Country,
Purchase Price,
Market Value Price (including price fluctuation estimates),
Any Resources discoverable and exploitable on the Property,
Essence transformed to date, and
Property market status (For Sale / Not For Sale);

A system which allows Players to bid on another Player’s property including features for;
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Placing a bid,
Updating a bid,
accepting a bid, with includes the automatic transfer of the ownership title
rejecting a bid,
counter offering a bid,
seeing the bid history,
automated ESCROW to increase bid security and proof of available funds, and
Automatic return of amount held in escrow if bids are rejected.

And a system which allows Players to list and trade their property with other Players via the Marketplace.

21

TOKENOMICS

ESSENCE TOKENOMICS
After much anticipation, Earth 2 is making its first move into
the Web3 space. Essence will become a disinflationary ERC-20
Utility Token initially launching on the Ethereum Blockchain. The
Layer 1 Etherium Blockchain was chosen for its superior security,
compliance and decentralisation merits.

WHY ARE MAKING ESSENCE A TOKEN?
The core reason for making Essence into a Utility Token is not
only for the assistance it provides Earth 2 with the development
of such an ambitious project, but to provide our community with a
compliant place to trade the token.

ESSENCE SUPPLY CAP
Essence will be capped at a maximum supply of 1,000,000,000
(one billion) tokens with the majority of these tokens being
mineable over time by land holders.

SYMBIOTIC RELATIONSHIP
Each time an Essence token is mined, a smaller amount of
Essence is unlocked in the Earth 2 Treasury, gradually providing
access to funds the Earth 2 team requires in order to build, scale,
market, expand and support such an ambitious project.

ESSENCE HALVING
Essence will be disinflationary with halving events set to activate
when the total mined + unlocked Essence reaches 500,000,000
(five hundred million), 750,000,000 (seven hundred and fifty
million) and 875,000,000 (eight hundred and seventy five million)
respectively. At each halving event, the E-ther spawn rate, or
minable E-ther, for each respective land tier type will reduce by
50%.

E-THER TO ESSENCE TRANSFORMATION
E-ther to Essence transformation will remain at 6.5%.

22

TOKEN LAUNCH DETAILS

TOKENOMICS CONTINUED

As many will be aware, the Web3 space is still stabilising and is often
very upredictable. There are mistakes made every day, even by well
established names in the space. Earth 2 has always planned to move
cautiously into the Web3 space, therefore, we will be implementing a
number of steps and procedures, at least initially, to ensure all of the
systems are secure and work as expected.
We highly suggest that each Player do their own due dilligence on
best practice security with anything related to tokens, storage, wallets,
transacting and anything else Web3 related.

WALLET CONNECTION
To begin, Players will be able to connect a MetaMask wallet to their
Earth 2 account. In order to connect this wallet, the Player will need to
have their 2FA activated on their Earth 2 account as they will need the
Authenticator Code to complete the connection of their wallet.
Any time the Player wishes to move their Essence tokens into their
connected wallet, they will need to confirm using the correct 2FA code.

TOKEN OUT-FLOW
To begin, all Essence tokens that appear in the Player profile when
logged into their Earth 2 account will be stored in a default wallet for
the ecosystem. When tokens are in this wallet, Players will be able to use
them inside of Earth 2 for a multitude of reasons without being subjected
to gas transfer fees. Security for this wallet will naturally be important,
therefore it will be a multi-sig wallet meaning multiple signatures are
required before transfers are processed.
Players will be able to lodge a request to transfer their Essence tokens to
the wallet they have successfully linked to their Earth 2 account using the
2FA authenticator.
This request will be batched and reviewed by our accounting team to
ensure the Player withdrawing the tokens has acquired them legitimately
and to perform other security spot checks in the best interest of the Earth
2 Players and platform.
We do not foresee any KYC restrictions on this procedure just yet, but if
a Player is caught attempting to process illegitimate withdrawals their
account will be frozen and further action will be taken.

TOKEN IN-FLOW
To bring tokens back into Earth 2 and use them within the ecosystem,
the Player simply needs to send the tokens from the wallet they have
successfully connected to their Earth 2 account to the main default wallet
for the ecosystem. This will trigger an event that automatically credits
the transferred Essence to that Players account, ready for use inside Earth
2.
More details on all of the above steps will be provided via the website
once the system is live.

23

TOKENOMICS CONTINUED

EXCHANGE
The Essence Utility Token will first launch on the UniSwap DEX. An
official date is not yet announced, but at this point in time it will
be late April or May.

LIQUIDITY POOL
From a legal standpoint and for a number of other reasons, Earth
2 will not be providing a liquidity pool. Our focus as a project will
be on what we always set out to achieve, building a geolocational
metaverse, focusing our time and effort on building a sustainable
metaverse platform which we believe will have positive organic
on-flow effects to other aspects of the project over time.
It is clear we want the best for those who are actively supporting
our project, which is reflected in the supply cap and many of the
features we are developing.

EDC
EDC is Essence that was promised to Players who have it assigned
to specific land they own. EDC is protected for guaranteed
detection and collection in any is remaining in years to come at
the end of the mining cycle.

INITIAL SUPPY
At the point of launch, we anticipate approximately 300 million
tokens in circulation. This includes tokens unlocked from the
Treasury and Tokens spent by Players to date, but the majority of
these tokens (over 200 million) have been mined or earned by
Players.

DEFLATIONARY
In addition to being disinflationary, Essence is also deflationary.
In many cases, but not all, a percentage of Essence sent to the
Treasury will be burned. Two prime examples of this are Land
Upgrades and Ad Broadcasting with both cases having a 50%
burn rate.

24

TOKEN ALLOCATION

25%
TREASURY
65%
MINED FROM
LAND

10%
REWARDS

65% - MINED FROM LAND
We have kept the Token Allocation very simple. The first and largest is the pool of Essence reserved for Land Owners and
accounts for E-ther detected on land which in then mined or raided. If the E-ther evaporates without being mined or raided it will
re-enter the Earth 2 ecosystem to be spawned again. Much of this pool may also be considered as Play to Earn, especially if Land
Owners decide to use the Ad Broadcasting system with mini-games or experiences.

25% - TREASURY
The Web3 industry is still in its infancy and if projects are to thrive there must be a level of freedom to adjust when needed.
For this reason the Treasury is a central multipurpose wallet Earth 2 will utilise for various needs, including but not limited to
development, supporting the project, marketing and promotion, costs, team allocations, liquidity pools when and if required
from future potential exchanges, advisers, MODs and so forth. These tokens will be unlocked progressively via the symbiotic
relationship with Player earned tokens.

10% - REWARDS AND PLAY TO EARN
The Rewards and Play for Earn wallet is reserved for Play 2 Earn acivities Earth 2 may promote from time to time, rewards via
staking opportunities such as Earth 2 Player Resource Validations, Yellow Energy Rewards, Air Drops, Sponsorships and other
activities that might reward the community or help grow the project.
25

WHY IS EARTH 2 A GOOD
CHOICE FOR BUILDING
THE METAVERSE?

BUILDING & DEDICATION
Over our short history, Earth 2 has already faced a number
of trialing situations. In each case we have pushed through
remaining focused on building the product we set out to build and
consistently releasing production ready features to our community
during a bear market.
The significant number of features we have released and visual
progress we have shown is a clear demonstration of our capability,
dedication and intention to build Earth 2.

BUSINESS MODEL
Since launching in November 2020, the Earth 2 business model
has been 100% self-sufficient - everything we have built and the
progress we have made has been achieved without Venture Captial
meaning our business model is sustainable.
The Essence Token and E2V1 will open up new opportunities and
allow us to push forward through new boundaries and beyond.

IDEOLOGY
We are building a platform that will be sustainable long term, based
on an ideology of a symbiotic relationship with our Players and
people interacting on our platform.
We have long term realistic exit strategies via advertising,
e-commerce, secondary markets, the EcoSim and numerous other
options which will be developed over time.

OWNERSHIP
Finally, there is ownership - it is inevitable that the Metaverse will
be built - do you really want the Metaverse built by a corporate
giant which has the goal to only benefit its own stakeholders?

TRACK RECORD
We have track record of trying to benefit our Players. We have also
consistently built over the past 3 years and will continue to build
for years to come as is evident in our history Road Map on the
following page.
Whether you want to own land or just play inside the metaverse be part of Earth 2 and let’s build the People’s Metaverse together.

26

T IM E L IN E
DEC-JAN
2021

NOV 2020

-

Officia launch of Earth 2
platform and entire suite of
base features
- Earth 2 Inception video
created in October, 2020

-

Extensive performance
updates
Earth 2’s very first dev stream
live on Twitch, YouTube, Twitter
& Facebook

MAR 2021

-

-

-

Uplod verification documents
New username selections
Block bids under 30% solution

-

Heatmap view
Bot prevention
Map based promos
LIT upgrade
Dubai opening

MAY 2021

JUN 2021

-

Added How-To, Careers &
Partners sections
Leaderboard & Notification
improvements
Withdrawal improvements

-

-

Introduction of Mentars
Introduction of E-ther being
processed into Essence
Introduction of Jewel Slotting
into Mentars

-

FEB 2021
CONT’D

-

Official video release of Earth
2’s Terrain Engine System in 4K
Earth 2’s second dev stream
(Terrain video LIVE)

-

JUN 2021
CONT’D

Revamp of automated credit
car payout system
Released Earth2 virtual card

-

-

JUL 2021

CONT’D

Introduction of Holobuilding
Editor (Blueprints)

-

-

Introduction of automated KYC system
Restrictions on non-KYC User-to-User trading

-

Introduction of Jewel system
Major upgrade to React
framework
Introduction of the Bazaar

AUG 2021

AUG 2021

SEP 2021

CONT’D

CONT’D

-

Official video release of
Physics inside the Earth 2
Terrain Engine

JUL 2021

-

AUG 2021

-

-

CONT’D

CONT’D

-

Grid and general UI updates
Profile page banners
Phone number fied filter
-

-

JUL 2021

JUL 2021

2FA Security
New Login
New payment processing
system

MAR 2021

New support page
New FAQ section
- 1st version of automatic
credit card payout system

APR 2021

FEB 2021

Automated referral code
system
- Marketplace filters

CONT’D

Pagination & loading spee
improvements
3D Map view with Choropleth

-

-

MAR 2021

CONT’D

-

JAN 2021

Bidding System Improvement
Slotting Expansion

-

Partnership with Jumio,
provider of AI-powered
verification technology

-

-

ear th2.io

-

Introduction of EPLs
Updated Real Time Price
Change Detectibility on listed
Properties
Introduction of Notification
Hub

TIMELINE
OCT 2021

-

Introduction of Game Activity
Ticker
MultiColour Property Display
Portfolio UI Update with more
Filters

-

-

-

-

-

JAN 2022

-

Second Earth 2 Egg Hunt
2022 with prizes in E$ and NFTs

First Dev Vlog video in new
Series goes Live: Dev VLOG #1
- E2V1 Digital Earth Rendering
Progress

DRONE acquisition

EDC Released
Essence Drop distributed to
Players
Introduction of T1 and T2 Land
Numerous other major
updates
from EDC

-

-

Introduction of Gift Feature
Gift Feature email delivery
system

DEC 2021

-

CONT’D

-

Major partnership with
Polygon Studios
Omar Rahim joins Earth 2 as
Strategic Advisor

JAN 2022

-

Expansion on Game Activity
feed data
Live Game Activity integrated
into the website header

FEB 2022

FEB 2022

CONT’D

-

-

ear th2.io

Introduction of E-ther
heatmap
Progressive release of Locked
Countries over Q1

Custom referral codes for T1
property owners
7.5% discount/refund for T1
custom referral codes

FEB 2022
CONT’D

CONT’D

Progress update on Resources
First winners of Egg Hunt 2022
announced
Market Place update for bot
protection

Holobuilding update
Landing Page update

FEB 2022

CONT’D

Map / Tile / Grid optimisation
update
Updated mobile-friendly
layout
Tier 1 distinguishable from Tier
2 properties as brighter colour

-

CONT’D

CONT’D

-

-

DEC 2021

DEC 2021

CONT’D

MAR 2022

-

-

Essence record update to
Transaction page

JAN 2022

CONT’D

- Introduction of Holobuildings

DEC 2021

CONT’D

-

CONT’D

Bazaar UI Update
3D Mentar Model Grid Display
Holobuilding Vertex Increase
Support

-

DEC 2021

JAN 2022

Introduction of Tier 3 Jewels
Release of T3 Jewel recipes
Over $1.3M in fiat worth of
Jewels sold to date in P2P trading

Alphabetic filter for Jewel
Slotting
EPL Management for Projects /
Megacities
Heatmap Upgrade

CONT’D

Introduction of Jewel Crafting
to the Resource section
Added Jewel Shards
Introduction of Tier 2 Jewels
Introduction of Jewel Qualities

SEP 2021

CONT’D

NOV 2021

NOV 2021

-

SEP 2021

OCT 2021

CONT’D

-

Draft of the Earth 2 Web3
Documen

T IM E L IN E
MAR 2022

-

Various optimisations
implemented to the Bazaar
Earth 2 VLOG #2 ECOSIM - First
Phase 2 Building & Tech
Introduction

-

-

-

-

-

-

NOV 2022

Videov - Deep- dive game
mechanics on Civilians
E-ther and Essence
decimalisation

Weekly Countdowns for
Mentar Giveaways
New Country releases for
previously locked countries!

-

First round of E2PRV validations
begin for Gold, Oil, Coal,
Limestone and Iron
Resolution to 2021 pending
Egg Hunt winner and
runners-up

Earth 2 turns 2

Updates to U2U HB Trading
Feature - V1.1
Limited Edition HBs
Resell Holobuildings.
Sell Limited Edition
Holobuildings.

-

Introduction to Civilian
sustenance system
Introduction to the Raid
Commander targeting system
and Civilian XPs

SEP 2022

-

OVER $19M USD processed by
Earth 2

-

ear th2.io

-

Gifting Update - displaying on
Player properties
New Jewel utility for Raiding
and Cydroids

Introduction to User-to-User
Holobuilding and Blueprint
trading

SEP 2022
CONT’D

-

Over 50 % of E2PRV processed
and 20 Million Essence
awarded to Players

DEC 2022

DEC 2022

CONT’D

-

CONT’D

NOV 2022

NOV 2022

CONT’D

MAY 2022

AUG 2022

CONT’D

Shareable URLs for HB listings
HB Profile Gallery for Designers
Royalties for eligible original HB
designers

-

Updates to Country Statistics
page
Fractions of Essence
Game Activity and Transaction
history updated to dark theme

NOV 2022

CONT’D

-

-

CONT’D

NOV 2022

-

Strategic Partnership with
R/GA announced

JUL 2022

-

Property Flags for individual
properties
Resource Heatmaps, Resource
details on Property Card and
Property Info page

CONT’D

-

Introduction of Earth 2 Player
Resource Validation (E2PRV)
system

-

MAY 2022

CONT’D

JUL 2022

-

Notification Hub 2
Further Essence Generation
updates as part of prepartion to
list Essence as a Token
Holobuilding security update
Copy Prevention

MAY 2022

Earth 2 passes 100 Million tile
sales
First Edition Civilians Officially
Live on Earth 2!

MAY 2022

CONT’D

Bidding Hub 2 major update
Player to Player Bidding
New Leaderboards
EPL flagging/removal function
Celebrating Earth Day Essence rewards for Active

JUN 2022

-

APR 2022

APR 2022

CONT’D

-

Video - E2V1 3D Earth 2 Engine
Tech Demo
Announced strategic partnership with Ready Player Me

T IM E L IN E
FEB 2023

MAR 2023

-

Introduction to Cydroid rarities
and Property Trading protocols
Footage of Raiding inside E2V1
updates and improvements to
raiding

-

Raiding & Cydroid Update +
Green Light on Stage 2

MAR 2023

-

Cydroid Raiding release, first
iteration of the Raiding Game
Engine

-

-

Civilians offiicially Live

-

CONT’D

-

Supercharged E-ther for Earth
2 day

APR 2023

Earth 2’s First sustenance
system for Civilians
Introduction to the Civilian XPs
and Raid Commander
targeting system

CONT’D

-

Crypto payments/deposits via
RocketFuel
Stripe Payment option added
to Earth 2

-

AUG 2023

CONT’D

-

AUG 2023

Profile page update Resources Overview
Optional O.U. Campaign for
Wood, Water and Sand

-

AUG 2023

CONT’D

-

APR 2023

JUL 2023

Jewel UI Update - new
interface, Icons + bulk slotting
Red Energy for New T1
purchases ends

SEP 2023

Raiding, Cydroids & Civilians
High Level Summary

MAY 2023

-

Video – EcoSim game
mechanics breakdown

P2P Civilian Trading LIVE on the
Bazaar

E2PRV reopens starting with
silver/copper
E-ther transactions added to
transaction page

JUL 2023

CONT’D

-

-

-

JUN 2023

-

CONT’D

JUN 2023

Updates to the Jewel Slotting
Interface
The Weaver, Prospecting
Cydroid and Resources game
mechanics

-

Video - Flying inside Earth 2’s
3D World - E2V1

-

CONT’D

CONT’D

APR 2023

Introduction of Red Energy’ &
the First RBA Reward

JUN 2023

-

-

APR 2023

CONT’D

DEC 2022

JAN 2023

AUG 2023

CONT’D

P2P Cydroid Trading LIVE on
the Bazaar

-

ear th2.io

Cydroid Management feature
released
Cydroid Management update
& Cydroid Slotting

Property page update - new
Jewel Boost overview for
Resources
Update to Jewel Bazaar Dark theme

CONT’D

-

Introduction to Brilliant Jewel
COPY Effect
Reduced Essence rejection
rate for E2PRV claims

T IM E L IN E
SEP 2023

-

DEC 2023

Relaxing footage of E2V1

https://youtu.be/7FvXiYYFnGM

-

-

All Resources confirmed with
25/32 still open to claim via
E2PRV

-

FEB 2024

-

DEC 2023

Official Earth 2 Skin Store
release
Introducing Kyung, Earth 2’s
first avatar

-

-

Premiere Video- the beauty of
E2V1 in-engine (4K) earth2.io

JAN 2023

CONT’D

Skin Gifting feature LIVE

-

Released Motorway Marauder
skin to E2 Skin Store
https://youtu.be/DnT4PlHRLNA

CONT’D

-

The Power of Essence article
detailing fluctuating power of
Essence in E2 Metaverse

FEB 2024

FEB 2024

CONT’D

Released Limited Edition
Cupid’s Cleaner and CUPID
XOX skins to E2 Skin Store
https://youtu.be/0U1uXgJ89EA

-

Eventide - Earth 2 Skin
Development Progress viideo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
Ug0SRN_C4sw

MAR 2024

-

Released Yellow Energy
Content Contribution system
Yellow Energy XP system

MAR 2024

CONT’D

-

T3 Territory Governance system
is LIVE
Pilot governance system
Automate Territory Release
Boosted E-ther Pools

JAN 2023

-

Major retroactive air drop of
Essence related to EDC in 2021

E2V1 Pre-Alpha invitation to
Earth 2 players
https://youtu.be/HYTMZsea9zQ

-

CONT’D

MAR 2024

-

Settings page overhaul
Earth 2 Skins blueprint system
details revealed

FEB 2024

CONT’D

-

CONT’D

JAN 2024

CONT’D

Abort Raid Feature
Updates to Raiding

CONT’D

DEC 2023

CONT’D

DEC 2023

-

-

DEC 2023

CONT’D

NOV 2023

CONT’D

Earth 2 turns 3

Updates to Jewel Bazaar - Full
transition to dark theme
Jewels Bulk Buy & New
Marketplace Filter

-

NOV 2023

NOV 2023

CONT’D

MAR 2024

CONT’D

Released Anubis skin to E2 Skin
Store
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8
5MqdwC9LuE

-

Released Khephera skin to E2
kin Store
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z
Ytk3w4Td8k

ear th2.io

CONT’D

-

Announced collaborative
partnership with MetaGravity

T IM E L IN E

-

Major EcoSim release of
Resource Frequence
confirmation, OU Generation
and more

-

Essence ERC-20 Utility Token
Launch

Attended Game Developers
Conference, San Francisco
Showcasing interactive build of
E2V1 to the public for the very
first time

-

CONT’D

Over $15,000 worth of Land
gifted to 200 lucky winners of
the giveaway competition.

-

Q3 2024

Q2 2024

-

MAR 2024

CONT’D

CONT’D

Q2 2024

-

MAR 2024

MAR 2024

Q2 2024

Initial E2V1 Pre-Alpha closed
testing

-

ear th2.io

E2V1 Pre-Alpha possibly with
early multiplayer support

Earth 2 Whitepaper Release

Q3 2024

-

Broadcasting Device Crafting

DISCLAIMER

PLEASE READ THIS DISCLAIMER SECTION CAREFULLY. IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT AS TO THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU
SHOULD CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX, OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S) CONCERNING THE ESSENCE TOKEN AND
THE EARTH 2 PLATFORM.

THE ESSENCE TOKEN IS NOT INTENDED TO CONSTITUTE A DIGITAL CURRENCY, COMMODITY, SECURITY, FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT
OR ANY OTHER FORM OF INVESTMENT IN ANY JURISDICTION. THIS WHITE PAPER, DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A PROSPECTUS OR
OFFERING DOCUMENT OF ANY SORT AND IS NOT A SOLICITATION FOR INVESTMENT AND DOES NOT CONSTITUTE AN OFFER OF
SECURITIES TO THE PUBLIC OR A COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME IN ANY JURISDICTION.

This Earth 2 White Paper is for information purposes only. We do not guarantee the accuracy of or the conclusions reached in this
White Paper, and this White Paper is provided “as is” and may be altered or updated at any time by Earth 2.

In particular, the “Roadmap” as set out in the text of the White Paper is subject to change, which means that Earth 2 is not bound
by any representations to the future performance and the returns of Earth 2. The actual results and the performance of Earth 2
may differ materially from those set out in the Earth 2 White Paper.

This White Paper does not make and expressly disclaims all representations and warranties, express, implied, statutory or
otherwise, whatsoever, including, but not limited to: (i) warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, suitability,
usage, title or non-infringement; (ii) that the contents of this White Paper are free from error; and (iii) that such contents will not
infringe third-party rights.

In no event will Earth 2 or its affiliates be liable to any person or entity for any damages, losses, liabilities, costs or expenses of
any kind, whether direct or indirect, consequential, compensatory, incidental, actual, exemplary, punitive or special for the use
of, reference to, or reliance on this White Paper or any of the content contained herein, including, without limitation, any loss of
business, revenues, profits, data, use, goodwill or other intangible losses.

Please refer to our website for terms & conditions
If you are unfamiliar with White Paper disclaimers, we urge you to check White Papers for some of the largest tokens world wide.

28

