Tier 1 vs. Tier 2 Tiles:

1. Buying Tier 1 vs. Tier 2 Tiles:

As of now, all player-owned properties will be classified by Earth 2 as Tier 1, and all unclaimed land on Earth 2 will be classified as Tier 2. With this change, only Tier 2 tiles will be available for purchase from Earth 2 and their prices will restart at E$0.10, increasing in value as more tiles are bought. Tier 2 tiles can also be traded in the Marketplace while Tier 1 tiles are acquired either by purchasing from a Tier 1 property owner or upgrading from Tier 2 tiles. However, original Tier 1 tiles assigned by Earth 2 are only obtainable through player-to-player trading with an original Tier 1 Property Owner. Only these original Tier 1 properties will have the promise of Essence from Earth 2. A player may upgrade their Tier 2 property to a Tier 1 property at any time. However, the cost of upgrading will vary as the Price-Per-Tile value of Tier 1 land tiles is dynamic and will continue to increase.


To protect all original Tier 1 Property Owners who currently have listings on the Marketplace, a freeze on the Earth 2 Marketplace until Dec 14 inclusive will be implemented. With the Essence promised to all original Tier 1 properties, as well as the additional bonuses tied to those properties, the current Marketplace prices are no longer accurate reflections of the value of these properties. The freeze will give new Tier 1 Property Owners ample opportunity to withdraw their properties from sale. This is highly recommended by Earth 2.



2. Functions of Tier 1 vs. Tier 2 Tiles:

Tier 1 and Tier 2 tiles are further differentiated by their functions. Most significantly, Tier 1 tiles have guaranteed Ether to Essence conversion and Essence generation while for Tier 2, the conversion and generation are unpredictable. In addition to guaranteed Essence generation, Tier 1 tiles have other generative abilities that Tier 2 tiles do not. In the future, Tier 1 Property Owners will have full access to discoverable resources while for Tier 2 tiles, access will be restricted. Resource saturation for Tier 1 is also boosted compared to the standard saturation for Tier 2. Tier 1 tiles will also continue to generate LIT (Land Income Tax / Period Bonus) and have the ability to assign EPLs while Tier 2 tiles will not. Tier 1 tiles will retain their land classes under Tier 1, while Tier 2 tiles will be labeled generally and no longer be distinguished by classes.



3. Additional Benefits of Owning Tier 1 vs. Tier 2 Tiles:

Along with the functional superiority of Tier 1 tiles, Tier 1 Property Owners will enjoy a 7.5% referral code bonus with their unique and customizable referral codes. Tier 2 Property Owners will continue to receive 5% from their randomized referral codes. Finally, both Tier 1 and Tier 2 tiles will grant players access to the Earth 2 EcoSim, though there will be a building cap for Tier 2 tiles. Tier 1 Property Owners will be able to enjoy further benefits in-game and in the metaverse as Earth 2 plans to progressively release more bonuses in the future.

Welcome to Earth 2, our world’s Geolocational Metaverse, meaning that the location you’re standing right now in the real world will also be digitally represented inside of Earth 2. We are building a pristine 1:1 scale interactive digital replication of our planet Earth. Earth 2 has grown into the biggest Virtual Land Registry in the world with over 100 million land parcels sold.